# 15 WW2 F20.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/15 WW2 F20.pdf

Category: [[other]]

## Summary
Internment of Japanese Teheran Conference Debate about Second Front D-Day Yalta Conference The Road to Total War: Just War Theory V-E Day After Pearl Harbor, Dec. 1941…

## Full Content
Internment of Japanese
Teheran Conference
Debate about Second Front
D-Day
Yalta Conference
The Road to Total War:
Just War Theory
V-E Day

After Pearl Harbor, Dec. 1941…

AntiJapanese
Fever in
US

By April, 1942: More than 100,000
Japanese American citizens interned

US Defense industry revs up

Woman aircraft worker, 1942

Black woman working on a "Vengeance" dive bomber,
Tennessee

Hitler as a witch
Oct. 31, 1942
(Halloween)

Nov. 1943:
“Big Three” meet in Teheran

IRAN

At
Teheran:
Focus on
opening
nd
the 2
Front

Why don’t UK & US open
the Second Front?
in 1942 … or in 1943…?
US
explanation:
Need more
time

USSR
fear:
US & UK want
Germany &
USSR
to exhaust
each other.

Finally, D-Day, June 6 1944

Finally, D-Day, June 6 1944

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B6lAkiArN0-ycXEtaUVtUVF6MGM/view to 9:16
Saving Private Ryan 10 min

NCSU Marching band playing at 75th Anniversary of D Day, 2019

D-Day Landing Site

Aug. 19, 1944
US &
UK

Occupied
by
Germany

Soviets

Aug. 1944: Liberation of Paris

Dec. 31, 1944
US &
UK

Occupied
by
Germany

Soviets

← Yalta

Yalta, Feb. 1945

“How are we feeling today?”

Churchill, FDR & Stalin discuss the state of the world,
Yalta 1945

Confident of victory in Europe, they agree to fight
until Germany’s unconditional surrender.

Hitler, Himmler, Goebbels, cornered, watch in horror as Stalin,
FDR, Churchill agree to pursue unconditional surrender at Yalta

Yalta, 1945
FDR worries about ending war vs Japan

.

FDR & Stalin negotiate.
Stalin promises USSR will enter war vs
Japan 3 months after V-E day

The Firebombing of Dresden
Feb. 1945
The Road to Total War

25,000-38,000 killed

Dresden, before & after

British convinced Americans.

“All’s fair in love and war”

Just War Theory

(1) Discrimination

(2) Proportionality

(3) Mercy

US soldier carries wounded & captured Iraqi during First Gulf War, 1991

In Europe, allies advanced
Mar. 30, 1945
US &
UK

Occupied
by
Germany

Soviets

Apr 12, 1945: FDR Dies

FDR on April 11, the day before he died.

FDR’s Funeral

Harry Truman becomes President
Apr. 12, 1945

Served in WWI; Democratic Senator from Missouri, 1935-45;
Vice President 1945

April 25, 1945
US & Soviets meet at Elbe River

April 30: Hitler commits suicide

Examining bunker after death of Hitler

May 1, 1945: Victory is near
US &
UK

Occupied
by
Germany

Soviets

May 8, 1945:
Germany is completely occupied
US &
UK

Occupied
by
Germany

Soviets

This is unconditional surrender

Germany, 1945

Early days: Aug. 1, 1943

Japanese
Empire
Allies

Firebombing of Tokyo
Spring 1945, especially March 9 &10
Dresden
had
been in
February

Firebombing of Tokyo

100,000 killed. 16 square miles of city destroyed.

Firebombing of Tokyo

More people were killed than by the atomic bomb at Nagasaki.

Japanese
Empire
Allies

Progress by April 15 1945
(FDR’s death)

1943

1945

Big 3 arrive at Potsdam Conference,
July 15, 1945
War in
Europe is
over;
Japan is
almost
defeated.

Discuss at
Potsdam,
(1) Soviet
entry to
help USA
defeat
Japan by
Aug. 15;

(2) wording of a surrender offer to Japan

(3) postwar
Europe,
esp.
Germany.

Truman’s diary entry
July 17, 1945, at Potsdam
“Most of the big points are settled. He'll
[Stalin] be in the Jap War on August
15th. Fini Japs when that comes about.
We [he and Stalin] had lunch, talked
socially, put on a real show drinking
toasts to everyone then had pictures
made in the back yard. I can deal with
Stalin. He is honest -- but smart as hell.”

The next day, the Manhattan Project
succeeds in exploding an atomic bomb at
the test site in New Mexico.

Telegram to Secretary of War
at Potsdam
“Operated on this morning. Diagnosis
not yet complete but results seem
satisfactory and already exceed
expectations. Local press release
necessary as interest extends great
distance. Dr. Groves pleased.”

The British had been partners in the
Manhattan Project

Manhattan Project Scientists in New Mexico, 1945.
Oppenheimer is wearing the hat.

But the Soviets had not been informed,
and HST did not tell Stalin at Potsdam.

HST note on back of photograph about telling
Stalin about US atomic bomb, July 1945

July 25: from Potsdam
HST orders two bombs on Japan
“as soon as weather will permit”

Preparing the bomb, "Fat Man"

"Fat Man" is loaded onto a transport trailer

The Potsdam Declaration, July 26 1945
US & UK to Japan:
• “Following are our terms. We will not deviate
from them. There are no alternatives. We
shall brook no delay. ”
– Japan must renounce empire and disarm.
– Japan will be occupied.

• “The alternative for Japan is prompt and
utter destruction.”

Japanese response (unofficial)
“We can only
ignore
[mokusatsu] it.
We will do our
utmost to
complete the war
to the bitter end.”
Prime Minister Suzuki

Aug. 1 1945: Japan is surrounded
Allies control air & sea:
End is virtually certain
Japanese
Empire
Allies

Hiroshima. Aug. 6 1945

Hiroshima.
Aug. 6 1945

c. 70,000 died immediately
c. 100,000 in 6 months
c. 200,000 eventually

Reenactment -- with interviews with
actual survivors and with Tibbets.

https://youtu.be/3wxWNAM8Cso

Aug. 8, 1945: USSR enters war

Nagasaki
Aug. 9, 1945

Nagasaki
c. 40,000 died
immediately
c. 70,000 in 6
months
c. 140,000 in 5
years

Photographs taken by Japanese in
immediate aftermath of bomb.
These were censored by US
occupying army and not released to
US public.
They are disturbing

Patients being treated in a medical
tent in Hiroshima on Aug. 9.

A man in Nagasaki
searching for a
doctor to treat his
wounded baby
the day after the
bombing.

A dead horse
and a wagon
south of
Nagasaki’s
ground zero,
the day after
the bombing.

2:00 p.m. on Aug. 10. The bomb exploded
about 1/3 mile from here. The remains of
a private school is in the rear at right.

Aug. 14, 1945:
Japanese surrender

Aug. 15 1945

Defeated
Japanese
Empire

Allies

A view of the center of Hiroshima from
a police station in September 1945.

Bones scattered in September 1945 on
a school playground, less than a mile
from ground zero.

Man with radiation burns,
Hiroshima, Oct. 2

Radiation burns

A family cremating its dead in Nagasaki
in September 1945.

“Atomic Diplomacy” – Gar Alperowitz
Why did US drop the atomic bombs?
• Note the following dates (all in 1945)
– Aug. 6: Hiroshima
– Aug. 8: USSR entry v. Japan
– Aug. 9: Nagasaki
– Aug. 14/15: Japanese surrender

• Why did US drop two bombs when it did?
– Remember: Japan was almost defeated by late July
– and HST wrote: “He'll [Stalin] be in the Jap War on
August 15th. Fini Japs when that comes about.”

• Was it military necessity – to defeat Japan…

Or was it the first salvo
of the Cold War?

USA

vs.

USSR



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/15 WW2 F20.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: other
