# 2022 HW#10.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/2022 HW#10.pdf

Category: [[academic-homework]]

## Summary
NE235 - PULSTAR REACTOR OPERATIONS NAME: HW#10 REF: Theory Manual Chapter 2: §2.10 – §2.13 Appended 2011 Gang Rod Integral Worth Curve and Xenon Worth Curves PULSTAR Reactivity Coefficients PDF (posted on Moodle site) 1.

## Full Content
NE235 - PULSTAR REACTOR OPERATIONS

NAME:

HW#10
REF: Theory Manual Chapter 2: §2.10 – §2.13
Appended 2011 Gang Rod Integral Worth Curve and Xenon Worth Curves
PULSTAR Reactivity Coefficients PDF (posted on Moodle site)

1.

Calculate the ECP (estimated critical position) Gang Rod Height (inches from bottom) for
Tuesday morning at 8:00 AM given the following reactor operating history and conditions
(Use the attached 2011 Gang Integral Rod Worth curve and Xenon reactivity worth curve,
and reactivity coefficients as given in class):
Monday:
Prior to startup:
Pool Temp = 95°F
Xenon = 0 pcm
Experiments = -100 pcm
Source = 0 pcm (inserted)

Tuesday:
Prior to startup @ 8:00 AM Tuesday:
Pool Temp = 102°F
Xenon = ?? pcm
Experiments = +50 pcm
Source = -16 pcm (removed)

• ACP (Actual Critical Position) = 18.5”
Rods Ganged @ 100 Watts
• Operated 8 hrs @ 500kW
• Shutdown Monday @ 4:00 PM
Calculate ECP (gang rod height) @ 100 Watts for Tues. @ 8:00 AM.

2.

Calculate Excess Reactivity (excess) for Tuesday morning @ 8:00 AM correcting to Cold,
Clean, Critical conditions:
DEF: Cold, Clean, Critical Conditions
• No Xenon in core (xenon = 0 pcm)
• No Experiments in core (exper = 0 pcm)
• Pool (Moderator) Temp (T2) = 70°F
• Startup Source In (source = 0 pcm)
Hint: Where at Cold, Clean, Critical, (excess) = - (rods)

3.

Given (excess) above, calculate the Shutdown Margin (pcm) if the total Gang Rod Worth
is – 8000 pcm fully inserted at 0” Gang Rod Height.

NUCLEAR ENGINEERING

FALL 2022

NE235 - PULSTAR REACTOR OPERATIONS
POWER DEFECT LAB:
1. Which temperature related reactivity coefficient(s) are accounted for by the power coefficient
of reactivity (i.e. power defect)?

2. Point Of Adding Heat (POAH):
a. What is the POAH as quoted in the NE235 theory manual?
b. What was the ~ POAH as observed in lab (reference lab data spreadsheet)?
3. What was the total power coefficient we measured in lab at 750 kW?

4. What were the main sources of uncertainty in the measurement of #3 above?
5. Was power defect (pcm/MW) completely linear (R2 fit parameter =1.000?) with respect to
power?

NUCLEAR ENGINEERING

FALL 2022



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/2022 HW#10.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: academic-homework
