# 2022 HW#6.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/2022 HW#6.pdf

Category: [[academic-homework]]

## Summary
NE235 - REACTOR OPERATIONS References: HOMEWORK #6 Read Reactor Theory Manual Chapter 1: §1.5 Reference the following content on the class Moodle page: • Lecture Module #6 – Lecture Slides • Lab Module #4 – 1/M Approach to Criticality PDF & Data File

## Full Content
NE235 - REACTOR OPERATIONS
References:

HOMEWORK #6

Read Reactor Theory Manual Chapter 1: §1.5
Reference the following content on the class Moodle page:
• Lecture Module #6 – Lecture Slides
• Lab Module #4 – 1/M Approach to Criticality PDF & Data File

1. Sub-Critical Multiplication: Mark the Following Statements TRUE or FALSE (Assume Keff <1
for all cases):
a) Equal changes in Keff do NOT result in equal changes in equilibrium neutron
population Neq.
b) As Keff approaches 1.0, more generations are required to reach equilibrium;
therefore, less time is required to reach equilibrium.
c) If Keff is increased halfway to 1.0 from its initial value, the neutron count rate
will decrease by half.
d) As Keff approaches 1.0, the # of neutrons lost from the fission chain decreases
(i.e. Ni(1-Keff) decreases)

2. Do Chapter #1 Problem #2 on page 25 of Reactor Theory Manual (use a separate piece of
paper please): Note: Keff = 1/(1-); CR2 = CR1 x (1-K1)/(1-K2). Calculate changes in Keff from
step additions in reactivity and then each corresponding equilibrium countrate (CR). Sketch
NFM trace.

Continued on next page….

Page 1 of 2

NE235 - REACTOR OPERATIONS

HOMEWORK #6

1/M Lab Questions - Fill in the blanks:
REF: Lab #4 – 1/M Approach to Criticality PDF & Excel Data Plot (from lab)
1/M Startup - Fill in the blanks:
1. During a 1/M startup, do the following values increase (↑), decrease (↓) or stay the same (↔)?:
S ____ Nf _____ CRo _____ CRi _____
2. During a 1/M startup, what limits are approached for the following values? (0, 1, or ∞):
Keff → _____ M → ____ 1/M → ____
3. Which detector in the reactor core is the Neutron Flux Monitor (NFM) connected to?

4. What are the two conditions used (i.e. whichever happens first) when determining how far to
withdraw the control rods for each 1/M step?

5. How many times in lab did we determine how far to withdrawal the rods by doubling the count
rate?

6. Approximately what critical gang rod height (in inches) did our 1/M plot converge to?

7. Apart from the first rod pull, was our plotted 1/M approach to criticality conservative or nonconservative?

Page 2 of 2



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/2022 HW#6.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: academic-homework
