# 2022 HW#3.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/2022 HW#3.pdf

Category: [[academic-homework]]

## Summary
NE235 - PULSTAR REACTOR OPERATIONS NAME: HW#3 REF: 3R’s Lecture Slides and HP Instrument Lab Handout 1. List two examples of isotopic fission products that are present in the reactor core. 2. What effect on matter does ionizing radiation have that non-ionizing radiation does not? List two examples of each type of radiation (ionizing –vs- non-ionizing).

## Full Content
NE235 - PULSTAR REACTOR OPERATIONS

NAME:

HW#3
REF: 3R’s Lecture Slides and HP Instrument Lab Handout
1. List two examples of isotopic fission products that are present in the reactor core.

2. What effect on matter does ionizing radiation have that non-ionizing radiation does not? List
two examples of each type of radiation (ionizing –vs- non-ionizing).

3. If you have a 1 Ci source of Cobalt-60, what is the exposure rate (R/hr) at 1 meter? Using
the inverse square law (DR1∙R12 = DR2∙R22), what would the exposure rate be at 3 meters
from the same source?

4. Radiation Units - Matching:
Roentgen (R)
A.
RAD
B.
REM
C.
1 Becquerel
D.
(Bq)
1 Curie (Ci)
E.
5. Biological Dose – Matching:
200 mREM/year A.
100 mREM/year B.
400 REM
C.
360 mREM/year D.
5 REM/year
E.

Unit of Absorbed Dose (MeV/gram)
Activity in 1 gram of Radium = 3.7E10 DPS
Unit of Exposure (coulombs/kg air)
Unit of Biological Dose Equivalent (MeV /gram tissue)
1 Decay Per Second (DPS)
LD 50/60
Average Annual Dose from Natural Background
NRC Whole Body Annual Dose Limit for Radiation Workers
Average Annual Dose from Radon Exposure
NRC Annual Dose Limit to Public from Licensed Activities

6. What type(s) of biological cells are at the greatest risk from radiation exposure?

NUCLEAR ENGINEERING

FALL 2022

NE235 - PULSTAR REACTOR OPERATIONS

HW#3

7. List two stochastic and three non-stochastic biological radiation effects.

8. “ALARA” precepts dictate that, to keep doses As Low As Reasonably Achievable, you
should do what four things (where possible)?

HP Lab Questions:
9. Fill in the answers for a Geiger-Muller detector –vs- an Ionization (proportional) Chamber:
Geiger-Muller (GM)

Ionization Chamber

a) Operating Voltage Range
b) Fill Gas(es)
c) Radiation Types Detected
d) Radiation Units used
10. In a radioactive materials lab, what is the primary use of handheld GM detectors –vs- Ionization
Chambers?

11. What type of neutron detector does our ‘REM Ball’ utilize? What is the function of the large
polyethylene ball? What radiation units does the REM ball read out in?

12. What are two important pre-operational checks to verify before utilizing a hand-held radiation meter?

NUCLEAR ENGINEERING

FALL 2022



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/2022 HW#3.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: academic-homework
