# 2023. Spring CH223 exam3 topic list.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/2023. Spring CH223 exam3 topic list.pdf

Category: [[academic-homework]]

## Summary
2023 Spring CH223 Organic Chemistry II. Topic list for the 3rd mid-term exam. The concepts, reaction conditions (e.g. reagents), reaction product structure, and arrow-pushing reaction mechanisms of the following topics should be mastered for the exam (unless otherwise noted). See the exam practice problem to see how those will be asked in the exam. The topics of the previous exams will not be the main focus of this exam, but some concepts/terms/reactions of the previous topics may be involved fo

## Full Content
2023 Spring CH223 Organic Chemistry II. Topic list for the 3rd mid-term exam.
The concepts, reaction conditions (e.g. reagents), reaction product structure, and arrow-pushing
reaction mechanisms of the following topics should be mastered for the exam (unless otherwise
noted). See the exam practice problem to see how those will be asked in the exam.
The topics of the previous exams will not be the main focus of this exam, but some
concepts/terms/reactions of the previous topics may be involved for this exam (e.g. benzene is
the 6-member ring aromatic compound which was learned in the exam1 topics).
A topic highlighted in cyan is about reaction mechanisms. The cyan highlight does NOT indicate
that it is more important than other topics.

Class24 Carboxylic acid derivatives intro (Loudon 21, Carey 20)
Esters are more reactive than amides like aldehydes are more reactive than ketones (see the
blackboard image)
Base hydrolysis of esters (saponification) converts esters into carboxylic acid by kicking out
alcohol.
Base hydrolysis of esters mechanism

Class25 Carboxylic acid derivatives hydrolysis (Loudon 21, Carey 20)
Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of esters also converts esters into carboxylic acid by kicking out
alcohol like the base hydrolysis (saponification).
Acid-catalyzed hydrolysis of esters mechanism
Acid or base hydrolysis of amides converts amides into carboxylic acid by kicking out amines
Acid and base hydrolysis of amides are the fundamentally identical to the ester hydrolysis
Acid or base hydrolysis of nitriles converts nitriles into carboxylic acid by kicking out ammonia
(NH3)
Reactions of acid chlorides with amines produce amides.
Mechanism for “reactions of acid chlorides with amines produce amides”
Reactions of acid chlorides with alcohols produce esters.
Reactions of acid chlorides with carboxylic acids produce anhydrides.

Class26 Carboxylic acid derivatives nucleophiles and reduction (Loudon 21, Carey 20)
Reactions of anhydrides are similar to those of acid chloride: Anhydrides+amines producing
amides and anhydrides+alcohol producing esters
Reduction of esters with lithium aluminum hydride (but not NaBH4) produces primary alcohols.

Mechanism for “Reduction of esters with lithium aluminum hydride (but not NaBH4) produces
primary alcohols”
Reduction of amides with lithium aluminum hydride (but not NaBH4) produces amines.
Mechanism for “Reduction of tertiary amides with lithium aluminum hydride (but not NaBH4)
produces amines.” Reduction mechanism for primary and secondary amides do not have to be
memorized.

Class27 Carboxylic acid derivatives Grignard and summary (Loudon 21, Carey 20)
Reduction of nitriles with lithium aluminum hydride (but not NaBH4) produces primary amines.
Reaction of esters with Grignard reagents produces tertiary alcohols.
Mechanisms for nitrile reduction and ester+Grignard don’t need to be memorized.

Class28 Enolate introduction (Loudon 22, Carey 21)
Enolate is a nucleophilic species derived from a carbonyl group under basic conditions
Enol (basically like protonated enolate) is a nucleophilic group derived from a carbonyl group
under acidic conditions
Alpha proton (alpha position is next to carbonyl carbon) is unusually more acidic than regular CH protons. This makes the alpha position become negatively charged/nucleophilic.
Alpha proton (H) can be replaced with deuterium (D) under acidic or basic conditions
Acid-catalyzed bromination of alpha position produces alpha-(mono)bromo product.
Mechanism for “acid-catalyzed bromination of alpha position produces alpha-(mono)bromo
product.”
Base bromination of alpha position produces alpha-tribromo product. If the original alpha
position is CH3, the base bromination produces carboxylic acid through the haloform reaction
(like bromoform or chloroform).
Mechanism for Base bromination of alpha position. Both tribromo formation and haloform
reaction.
Bromination of alpha position of carboxylic acid requires PBr3 (HVZ reaction). Mechanism
doesn’t have to be memorized.

Class29 Enolate aldol reaction (Loudon 22, Carey 21)
Reaction of two aldehyde molecules (or two ketones or aldehydes/ketones) are called aldol
reaction.

Base-catalyzed aldol reaction produces beta-hydroxyl carbonyl products.
Base-catalyzed aldol reaction mechanism.
Base aldol condensation (under heated conditions produces) produces alpha-beta unsaturated
carbonyl
Base-catalyzed aldol reaction mechanism (which is base aldol reaction + dehydration).
Acid-catalyzed aldol condensation produces alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyl.
Acid-catalyzed aldol reaction mechanism (which is acid aldol reaction + dehydration).
Cross-aldol is aldol reaction/condensation between two different aldehydes ketones.
Intramolecular aldol reaction/condensation occurs in the same molecule.

Class30 Malonate chemistry (Loudon 22, Carey 21)
Claisen condensation is like aldol reaction but with esters (not aldehydes nor ketones)
producing beta-keto ester
Claisen condensation mechanism (unlike aldol reactions, ester has a leaving group on carbonyl,
which is OR, and ketone will be produced).
Intramolecular Claisen condensation is called Dieckmann condensation.
Claisen condensation of ester with aldehyde or ketone is possible (cross Claisen condensation).
Malonic ester (or malonate) is easier to generate reactive enolate or enol because of the lower
pKa of the alpha C-H.
Alkylation of alpha position of malonates with alkyl bromide.
Mechanism for “Alkylation of alpha position of malonates with alkyl bromide.“
Knoevenagel condensation is aldol condensation of malonate with aldehyde.
Mechanism of Knoevenagel condesnation does not have to be memorized.
(Decarboxylation can be used after Claisen condensation after ester hydrolysis (this basically
removes the whole ester group).)

Class31 Michael addition (Loudon 22, Carey 21)
If there is a C=C bond attached to carbonyl (called alpha, beta-unsaturated carbonyl
compounds), the beta position is electrophilic.
Addition of nucleophile to the beta position of alpha, beta-unsaturated carbonyl is called
conjugate addition (or Michael addition or 1,4-addition).
Conjugate addition with a cyanide reagent produces beta-nitrile carbonyl compound.
Mechanism of conjugate addition with a cyanide reagent

Conjugate addition with an amine reagent produces beta-amino carbonyl compound.
Conjugate addition of enolate/enol.
Mechanism of conjugate addition with enolate/enol.
Typical hydride reagents (NaBH4 and LiAlH4) causes direct addition (1.2-addition or carbonyl
addition) rather than conjugate addition.
Organolithium reagents (like a carbanion) causes direct addition (1.2-addition or carbonyl
addition) rather than conjugate addition. But, if organocuprate reagents (copper) are used,
conjugate addition will be preferred than the 1.2-addition or carbonyl addition.



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/2023. Spring CH223 exam3 topic list.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: academic-homework
