# _06_18_2024-document.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/_06_18_2024-document.pdf

Category: [[delete]]

## Summary
Central Bank Operations - DAC02 P.O. Box 27131 Raleigh, NC 27611-7131 ZE EST 436 14236 LUZ M BARBEITO JOSE MARIA BARBEITO

## Full Content
Central Bank Operations - DAC02
P.O. Box 27131
Raleigh, NC 27611-7131

ZE EST
436
14236

LUZ M BARBEITO
JOSE MARIA BARBEITO
ATILIO BARBEITO
456 EAGLE DR
CHAPEL HILL NC 27517-7554

Statement Period: May 17, 2024

Your Account(s) At A Glance
Checking
Balance

Thru June 18, 2024

Account Number :

Together Card
Account Number :

004358059750

Monthly Service Charge

312.47+
304.00+
2,531.83+
0.00
315.930.00

Ending

Balance

2,832.37+

Statement Period Days
Average Ledger Balance

Deposits To Your Account
Date

05-23

Description

05-31
06-03
06-07
06-07

Amount

Total

304.00

Description

Amount

Transfer Internet
05-31 Seq # 75236
Venmo Cashout *********4797
Cree Inc Direct Dep **********038L3
Cree Inc Direct Dep **********048L3

5007962504

Description
Transfer

40.00
619.00
872.83
1,000.00
2,531.83

Other Debits From Your Account
05-31

33
1,383.00+

304.00

Total
Date

0

Customer Deposit

Other Credits To Your Account
Date

004358059750

Enclosures In Statement:

1 Deposits
4 Other Credits
0 Checks
1 Other Debits

Beginning Balance

2,832.37+

Internet

05-31 Seq # 77073

Total

Direct Customer Inquiry Calls To
Personal 1-888-323-4732
Business 1-866-322-4249

118709831312167

Amount

315.93
315.93

Page 1 of 4

Statement Period: May 17, 2024

Thru June 18, 2024

Total Year-To-Date

0.00
0.00

0.00
0.00

Total Insufficient Funds Fees

Date

05-23
05-31

Balance

616.47+
340.54+

004358059750

Total Statement Cycle
Total Overdraft Fees

Daily Balance Summary

Account Number :

Date

06-03
06-07

Balance

959.54+
2,832.37+

Page 2 of 4

14236

Statement Period: May 17, 2024

Thru June 18, 2024

Account Number :

004358059750

FOLLOW THESE EASY STEPS TO BALANCE YOUR CHECKING ACCOUNT
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

Write here the ending balance shown
on the front of this statement.
Add deposits not credited in this
statement. (Use table A.)
Total of lines 1 and 2.
Checks and other debits outstanding
not charged to your account.
(Use table B.)
Subtract line 4 from line 3.
This should be your current
checkbook balance.

1

$

2

+$

3

=$

4

-$

5

=$

B. Outstanding Checks/Debits
Number

Amount

A. Deposits/Credits
Note: If your statement does not balance,
please check to be sure you have entered in
your check register all automatic transactions
(service charges, advances, payments, drafts
etc.) shown on the front of your statement.
Please notify the Bank promptly of any
discrepancy in your account statement.

Date

Total Amount

Amount

Total Amount

How to Compute Interest Charges on Your Line of Credit.
We figure the interest charge on your account by applying the periodic rate to
your "average daily balance" (including current transactions). To get the "average daily balance," we first determine the daily balance of
your Account each day. We take the beginning balance of your account each day, add any new advances and charges, and subtract any new
payments or credits and any unpaid interest charges, credit insurance premiums, late charges and other charges that have been posted to
the account. These calculations give us the daily balance. Then, we add up all the daily balances for the billing cycle and divide the total by
the number of days in the billing cycle. This gives us the "average daily balance." Next, we multiply the "average daily balance" by the
daily periodic rate applicable to your account. The daily periodic rate is determined by dividing the Annual Percentage Rate by the number
of days in the year. That result is then multiplied by the number of days in the billing cycle to obtain the monthly interest charge. Automatic
payment debits are posted to your account after your "average daily balance" is calculated. Interest charges and any credit insurance
premiums that accrue during each billing cycle are added to the balance of your account on the last day of the billing cycle prior to the
calculation of your minimum payment.
Variable Rate.
Unless the terms of your revolving line of credit specify that the rate is fixed, your daily periodic rate and Annual
Percentage Rate are variable rates subject to change each month.
What To Do If You Think You Find A Mistake On Your Statement (Consumer Accounts Only).
If you think there is an error on your
statement, write to us at the address shown on page one of your statement. In your letter, give us the following information: (1) Account
information: Your name and account number. (2) Dollar amount: The dollar amount of the suspected error. (3) Description of Problem: If
you think there is an error on your bill, describe what you believe is wrong and why you believe it is a mistake. You must contact us within
60 days after the error appeared on your statement. You must notify us of any potential errors in writing. You may call us, but if you do we
are not required to investigate any potential errors and you may have to pay the amount in question. While we investigate whether or not
there has been an error, the following are true: (1) We cannot try to collect the amount in question, or report you as delinquent on that
amount; (2) The charge in question may remain on your statement, and we may continue to charge you interest on that amount. But, if we
determine that we made a mistake, you will not have to pay the amount in question or any interest or other fees related to that amount; (3)
While you do not have to pay the amount in question, you are responsible for the remainder of your balance; (4) We can apply any unpaid
amount against your credit limit.
Your Rights If You Are Dissatisfied With Your Credit Card Purchases (Consumer Accounts Only).
This section applies if you access your
line of credit using a credit card. If you are dissatisfied with the goods or services that you have purchased with your credit card, and you
have tried in good faith to correct the problem with the merchant, you may have the right not to pay the remaining amount due on the
purchase. To use this right, all of the following must be true: (1) The purchase must have been made in your home state or within 100 miles
of your current mailing address, and the purchase price must have been more than $50. (Note: Neither of these are necessary if your
purchase was based on an advertisement we mailed to you, or if we own the company that sold you the goods or services.) (2) You must
have used your credit card for the purchase. Purchases made with cash advances from an ATM or with a check that accesses your credit
card account do not qualify. (3) You must not yet have fully paid for the purchase. If all of the criteria above are met and you are still
dissatisfied with the purchase, contact us in writing at Credit Card Center-RVA01, P.O. Box 1580, Roanoke, VA 24007-9903; or by calling our
Customer Contact Center at 1.888.323.4732. If you call, we may require you to provide us with a written statement concerning your
dissatisfaction with the purchase. While we investigate, the same rules apply to the disputed amount as discussed above. After we finish
our investigation, we will tell you our decision. At that point, if we think you owe an amount and you do not pay, we may report you as
delinquent.
Liability for Unauthorized Use of Credit Card (Consumer Accounts Only).
If you notice the loss or theft of your credit card or a possible
unauthorized use of your card, you should write to us immediately at: Credit Card Center-RVA01, P.O. Box 1580, Roanoke, VA 24007-9903, or
call us at our Customer Contact Center, 1.888.323.4732. You will not be liable for any unauthorized use that occurs after you notify us. You
may, however, be liable for unauthorized use that occurs before your notice to us. In any case, your liability will not exceed $50.
Credit History Errors.
If you believe we have inaccurately reported information about your account history to a consumer reporting
agency, please notify us in writing at the Bank address stated on page one of your statement.
Prompt Crediting of Payments.
To receive credit for a payment on the date we receive the payment, we must receive your payment
prior to 5:00 p.m. on a Bank business day (any day except Saturday, Sunday or a bank holiday). If paying at a branch or by mail, then
payments must include the payment coupon. In addition, if paying by mail, payment must be mailed to the specific address furnished by the
Bank. Payments received at any of our ATMs; payments received on a business day after 5:00 p.m.; payments received at a branch or by
mail without a coupon; and, payments received on a day that is not a Bank business day, will be credited to your account no later than the
next Bank business day.
Preauthorized Deposits.
If direct deposits are made to your account at least every 60 days by the same person or entity, you can call
us at the telephone number shown on page one of your statement to find out whether the deposit has been made.

Page 3 of 4

Statement Period: May 17, 2024

Thru June 18, 2024

Account Number :

004358059750

In Case of Errors or Questions About Your Electronic Transfers (Consumer Accounts Only).
If you think your statement or receipt is
wrong or if you need more information about a transfer on a statement or receipt, telephone or write us as soon as you can at the telephone
number or address which appears on page one of your statement. We must hear from you no later than 60 days after we sent you the
FIRST statement on which the error or problem appeared. You must: (1) tell us your name and account number; (2) describe the error or the
transfer you are unsure about (including the date it occurred), and explain as clearly as you can why you believe it is in error or why you
need more information; and (3) tell us the dollar amount of the suspected error. We will investigate your complaint and correct any error
promptly. We may take up to 45 days to complete our investigation (90 days for transfers initiated outside the U.S. or resulting from
point-of-sale debit-card transactions). If we take more than 10 business days (5 days for certain Visa
Check Card transactions; 20 days for
certain new accounts), we will recredit your account for the amount you think is in error, so that you will have the use of the money during
the time it takes to complete our investigation.

®

Credit Limit.
When you make a payment on your account, we may, at our option, delay advancing additional funds from your line of
credit in reliance on that payment until we confirm that your payment has been fully and finally collected. If we placed a hold on a credited
payment pending our final determination of collectability, the "Available Credit" amount on the front page of this statement will not reflect this
payment and funds in the amount of the hold will not be available to you for subsequent advances until we confirm that your payment has
been fully and finally collected.
Interest Charge.
The term "Interest Charge" on your statement has the same meaning as the term "Finance Charge" that may appear
in your revolving line of credit documents.

Page 4 of 4



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/_06_18_2024-document.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: delete
