# _08_16_2023-document.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/_08_16_2023-document.pdf

Category: [[delete]]

## Summary
Central Bank Operations - DAC02 P.O. Box 27131 Raleigh, NC 27611-7131 ZE EST 436 14681 LUZ M BARBEITO JOSE MARIA BARBEITO

## Full Content
Central Bank Operations - DAC02
P.O. Box 27131
Raleigh, NC 27611-7131

ZE EST
436
14681

LUZ M BARBEITO
JOSE MARIA BARBEITO
456 EAGLE DR
CHAPEL HILL NC 27517-7554

Statement Period: July 20, 2023

Your Account(s) At A Glance
Checking
Balance

Thru August 16, 2023

Account Number :

Together Card
Account Number :

004358059750

0 Deposits
3 Other Credits
0 Checks
5 Other Debits

Monthly Service Charge

4,922.93+
0.00
2,404.42+
0.00
3,503.000.00

Ending

Balance

3,824.35+

Beginning Balance

3,824.35+

004358059750

Enclosures In Statement:
Statement Period Days
Average Ledger Balance

0

28
5,618.00+

Working Together is the Best Fraud Protection
At First Citizens Bank, we want to help you keep your money and personal information secure. Fraud can take many forms,
including phishing attempts, check fraud and other scams. Always be on the lookout for text messages, emails and phone calls
from scammers attempting to steal information and access accounts. If something doesn't feel right, don't click, provide
information or send money - call our Customer Engagement Center at 888-323-4732 or visit your local branch. By working
together, we can help ensure your financial information remains safe and secure. See enclosed page for more tips about how
to recognize and avoid fraud.

Other Credits To Your Account
Date

07-21
07-31
08-04

Description

Cree Inc Direct Dep **********338L3
Transfer Internet
07-31 Seq # 53442
Cree Inc Direct Dep **********778L3
Total

Other Debits From Your Account
Date

08-03
08-07
08-08
08-10
08-16

Description

Amount

5007962504

1,335.07
40.00
1,029.35
2,404.42

Amount

Venmo Payment *********5105
Venmo Payment *********9260
Fid Bkg Svc Llc Moneyline Z******6815Txhn
Venmo Payment *********4273
Venmo Payment *********7293

168.00
67.00
3,000.00
58.00
210.00

Total

3,503.00

Direct Customer Inquiry Calls To
Personal 1-888-323-4732
Business 1-866-322-4249

Page 1 of 6

Statement Period: July 20, 2023

Thru August 16, 2023

Total Year-To-Date

0.00
0.00

0.00
0.00

Total Insufficient Funds Fees

Date

07-21
07-31
08-03

Balance

6,258.00+
6,298.00+
6,130.00+

004358059750

Total Statement Cycle
Total Overdraft Fees

Daily Balance Summary

Account Number :

Date

08-04
08-07
08-08

Balance

7,159.35+
7,092.35+
4,092.35+

Date

08-10
08-16

Balance

4,034.35+
3,824.35+

Page 2 of 6

14681

Central Bank Operations - DAC02
P.O. Box 27131
Raleigh, NC 27611-7131

Statement Period: July 20, 2023

LUZ M BARBEITO
JOSE MARIA BARBEITO
456 EAGLE DR
CHAPEL HILL NC 27517-7554

Thru August 16, 2023

Account Number :

004358059750

How to Recognize - and Avoid - Fraud
Anyone can be the target of a scam, so we want to help you stay safer with these tips.

How do I spot and avoid an imposter scam?
These scams involve texts, emails or calls that impersonate your bank - often with a fake security message - or a
familiar company or person you know. If you receive something suspicious ...

°
°
°
°

Don't click or respond.
Call our Customer Engagement Center at 888-323-4732 or visit your local branch.
Keep on top of account activity with First Citizens Digital Banking text and email alerts.
Never give your Digital Banking Secure Access Code to anyone.

What is check fraud, and how can I avoid it?
Criminals can steal checks from mailboxes to change the dollar amount and recipient or access personal
information like name, address and account numbers. You can protect your paper checks by ...

°
°
°
°

Mailing checks from inside a post office.
Using an electronic form of payment, such as bill pay, ACH, wire or digital payment app.
Monitoring your check activity through First Citizens Digital Banking.
Immediately notifying First Citizens of unauthorized checks.

How do I avoid a

"money mule" scam?

This scam involves someone sending you money and asking you to pass it along to someone else.
Don't do it; that money is likely stolen.

°
°
°

Don't use your bank account - or open one in your name - to transfer or wire money for anyone else.
Don't accept a job offer that asks you to transfer money.
Never send money to collect a prize or to an online relationship interest.

What are some signs that it's a scam?
Scammers use emotion to create a sense of urgency. Always be suspicious of texts, calls or emails from people
you don't recognize.
Scammers ...

°
°
°
°

Pretend to be an organization you know - the government, a business or charity.
Say there's a problem: You're in trouble. You owe money. There's an issue with your account or a virus on your
computer.
Pressure you to act immediately, threatening additional risks if you don't.
Tell you how to pay: using cryptocurrency, wiring money, even putting money on a gift card.

What other ways can I stay safe from scammers?

°
°
°
°

Don't share personal or financial information.
Block unwanted calls, texts and emails.
Don't click on suspicious links.
Keep tabs on your accounts with First Citizens text and email alerts and monitor accounts via Digital
Banking.

Remember: First Citizens Bank will never contact you to request security codes or other sensitive personal
information.
For more information, visit firstcitizens.com/fraud-prevention.

Page 3 of 6

Statement Period: July 20, 2023

Thru August 16, 2023

Account Number :

004358059750

This page is intentionally left blank

Page 4 of 6

14681

Statement Period: July 20, 2023

Thru August 16, 2023

Account Number :

004358059750

FOLLOW THESE EASY STEPS TO BALANCE YOUR CHECKING ACCOUNT
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.

Write here the ending balance shown
on the front of this statement.
Add deposits not credited in this
statement. (Use table A.)
Total of lines 1 and 2.
Checks and other debits outstanding
not charged to your account.
(Use table B.)
Subtract line 4 from line 3.
This should be your current
checkbook balance.

1

$

2

+$

3

=$

4

-$

5

=$

B. Outstanding Checks/Debits
Number

Amount

A. Deposits/Credits
Note: If your statement does not balance,
please check to be sure you have entered in
your check register all automatic transactions
(service charges, advances, payments, drafts
etc.) shown on the front of your statement.
Please notify the Bank promptly of any
discrepancy in your account statement.

Date

Total Amount

Amount

Total Amount

How to Compute Interest Charges on Your Line of Credit.
We figure the interest charge on your account by applying the periodic rate to
your "average daily balance" (including current transactions). To get the "average daily balance," we first determine the daily balance of
your Account each day. We take the beginning balance of your account each day, add any new advances and charges, and subtract any new
payments or credits and any unpaid interest charges, credit insurance premiums, late charges and other charges that have been posted to
the account. These calculations give us the daily balance. Then, we add up all the daily balances for the billing cycle and divide the total by
the number of days in the billing cycle. This gives us the "average daily balance." Next, we multiply the "average daily balance" by the
daily periodic rate applicable to your account. The daily periodic rate is determined by dividing the Annual Percentage Rate by the number
of days in the year. That result is then multiplied by the number of days in the billing cycle to obtain the monthly interest charge. Automatic
payment debits are posted to your account after your "average daily balance" is calculated. Interest charges and any credit insurance
premiums that accrue during each billing cycle are added to the balance of your account on the last day of the billing cycle prior to the
calculation of your minimum payment.
Variable Rate.
Unless the terms of your revolving line of credit specify that the rate is fixed, your daily periodic rate and Annual
Percentage Rate are variable rates subject to change each month.
What To Do If You Think You Find A Mistake On Your Statement (Consumer Accounts Only).
If you think there is an error on your
statement, write to us at the address shown on page one of your statement. In your letter, give us the following information: (1) Account
information: Your name and account number. (2) Dollar amount: The dollar amount of the suspected error. (3) Description of Problem: If
you think there is an error on your bill, describe what you believe is wrong and why you believe it is a mistake. You must contact us within
60 days after the error appeared on your statement. You must notify us of any potential errors in writing. You may call us, but if you do we
are not required to investigate any potential errors and you may have to pay the amount in question. While we investigate whether or not
there has been an error, the following are true: (1) We cannot try to collect the amount in question, or report you as delinquent on that
amount; (2) The charge in question may remain on your statement, and we may continue to charge you interest on that amount. But, if we
determine that we made a mistake, you will not have to pay the amount in question or any interest or other fees related to that amount; (3)
While you do not have to pay the amount in question, you are responsible for the remainder of your balance; (4) We can apply any unpaid
amount against your credit limit.
Your Rights If You Are Dissatisfied With Your Credit Card Purchases (Consumer Accounts Only).
This section applies if you access your
line of credit using a credit card. If you are dissatisfied with the goods or services that you have purchased with your credit card, and you
have tried in good faith to correct the problem with the merchant, you may have the right not to pay the remaining amount due on the
purchase. To use this right, all of the following must be true: (1) The purchase must have been made in your home state or within 100 miles
of your current mailing address, and the purchase price must have been more than $50. (Note: Neither of these are necessary if your
purchase was based on an advertisement we mailed to you, or if we own the company that sold you the goods or services.) (2) You must
have used your credit card for the purchase. Purchases made with cash advances from an ATM or with a check that accesses your credit
card account do not qualify. (3) You must not yet have fully paid for the purchase. If all of the criteria above are met and you are still
dissatisfied with the purchase, contact us in writing at Credit Card Center-RVA01, P.O. Box 1580, Roanoke, VA 24007-9903; or by calling our
Customer Contact Center at 1.888.323.4732. If you call, we may require you to provide us with a written statement concerning your
dissatisfaction with the purchase. While we investigate, the same rules apply to the disputed amount as discussed above. After we finish
our investigation, we will tell you our decision. At that point, if we think you owe an amount and you do not pay, we may report you as
delinquent.
Liability for Unauthorized Use of Credit Card (Consumer Accounts Only).
If you notice the loss or theft of your credit card or a possible
unauthorized use of your card, you should write to us immediately at: Credit Card Center-RVA01, P.O. Box 1580, Roanoke, VA 24007-9903, or
call us at our Customer Contact Center, 1.888.323.4732. You will not be liable for any unauthorized use that occurs after you notify us. You
may, however, be liable for unauthorized use that occurs before your notice to us. In any case, your liability will not exceed $50.
Credit History Errors.
If you believe we have inaccurately reported information about your account history to a consumer reporting
agency, please notify us in writing at the Bank address stated on page one of your statement.
Prompt Crediting of Payments.
To receive credit for a payment on the date we receive the payment, we must receive your payment
prior to 5:00 p.m. on a Bank business day (any day except Saturday, Sunday or a bank holiday). If paying at a branch or by mail, then
payments must include the payment coupon. In addition, if paying by mail, payment must be mailed to the specific address furnished by the
Bank. Payments received at any of our ATMs; payments received on a business day after 5:00 p.m.; payments received at a branch or by
mail without a coupon; and, payments received on a day that is not a Bank business day, will be credited to your account no later than the
next Bank business day.
Preauthorized Deposits.
If direct deposits are made to your account at least every 60 days by the same person or entity, you can call
us at the telephone number shown on page one of your statement to find out whether the deposit has been made.

Page 5 of 6

Statement Period: July 20, 2023

Thru August 16, 2023

Account Number :

004358059750

In Case of Errors or Questions About Your Electronic Transfers (Consumer Accounts Only).
If you think your statement or receipt is
wrong or if you need more information about a transfer on a statement or receipt, telephone or write us as soon as you can at the telephone
number or address which appears on page one of your statement. We must hear from you no later than 60 days after we sent you the
FIRST statement on which the error or problem appeared. You must: (1) tell us your name and account number; (2) describe the error or the
transfer you are unsure about (including the date it occurred), and explain as clearly as you can why you believe it is in error or why you
need more information; and (3) tell us the dollar amount of the suspected error. We will investigate your complaint and correct any error
promptly. We may take up to 45 days to complete our investigation (90 days for transfers initiated outside the U.S. or resulting from
point-of-sale debit-card transactions). If we take more than 10 business days (5 days for certain Visa
Check Card transactions; 20 days for
certain new accounts), we will recredit your account for the amount you think is in error, so that you will have the use of the money during
the time it takes to complete our investigation.

®

Credit Limit.
When you make a payment on your account, we may, at our option, delay advancing additional funds from your line of
credit in reliance on that payment until we confirm that your payment has been fully and finally collected. If we placed a hold on a credited
payment pending our final determination of collectability, the "Available Credit" amount on the front page of this statement will not reflect this
payment and funds in the amount of the hold will not be available to you for subsequent advances until we confirm that your payment has
been fully and finally collected.
Interest Charge.
The term "Interest Charge" on your statement has the same meaning as the term "Finance Charge" that may appear
in your revolving line of credit documents.

Page 6 of 6



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/_08_16_2023-document.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: delete
