# ch04.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/ch04.pdf

Category: [[other]]

## Summary
Chapter 4: Imperfections in Solids ISSUES TO ADDRESS... • What are the solidification mechanisms? • What types of defects arise in solids? • Can the number and type of defects be varied and controlled? • How do defects affect material properties? • Are defects undesirable?

## Full Content
Chapter 4:
Imperfections in Solids
ISSUES TO ADDRESS...
• What are the solidification mechanisms?
• What types of defects arise in solids?
• Can the number and type of defects be varied
and controlled?
• How do defects affect material properties?
• Are defects undesirable?

1

Imperfections in Solids
• Solidification- result of casting of molten material
• 2 steps

• Nuclei form
• Nuclei grow to form crystals – grain structure

• Start with a molten material – all liquid

nuclei

liquid

crystals growing

grain structure

Adapted from Fig. 4.14(b), Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

• Crystals grow until they meet each other

2

Polycrystalline Materials
Grain Boundaries
• regions between crystals
• transition from lattice of
one region to that of the
other
• slightly disordered
• low density in grain
boundaries
• high mobility
• high diffusivity
• high chemical reactivity

Adapted from Fig. 4.7,
Callister & Rethwisch 8e.
3

Solidification
Grains can be

- equiaxed (roughly same size in all directions)
- columnar (elongated grains)
~ 8 cm

heat
flow
Columnar in
area with less
undercooling
Adapted from Fig. 5.17,
Callister & Rethwisch 3e.

Shell of
equiaxed grains
due to rapid
cooling (greater
∆T) near wall

Grain Refiner - added to make smaller, more uniform, equiaxed grains.
4

Imperfections in Solids
There is no such thing as a perfect crystal.
• What are these imperfections?
• Why are they important?
Many of the important properties of materials are
due to the presence of imperfections.

5

Types of Imperfections
• Vacancy atoms
• Interstitial atoms
• Substitutional atoms

Point defects

• Dislocations

Line defects

• Grain Boundaries

Area defects

6

Point Defects in Metals
• Vacancies:

-vacant atomic sites in a structure.

Vacancy
distortion
of planes

• Self-Interstitials:

-"extra" atoms positioned between atomic sites.

distortion
of planes

selfinterstitial

7

Point Defects
a. Vacancy
b. Interstitial atom
c. Substitutional (small)
d. Substitutional (large)
e. Frenkel Defect
f. Schottky Defect

© 2016 Cengage Learning Engineering. All Rights Reserved.

8

Point Defects (interstitial)
 An interstitial defect is formed when an

extra atom/ion is inserted into the
crystal structure at a normally
unoccupied position.
 Although smaller than atoms at lattice
points, interstitial atoms introduce a
localized stress in their vicinity.
 This stress often strengthens the
material. For instance, interstitial carbon
atoms in an iron lattice strengthen the
iron.
 Point defects are localized disruptions in
otherwise perfect atomic/ionic
arrangements in a crystal structure.
 Effects of these disruptions are often felt
over the surrounding region.
 Substitutional atoms often increase the
strength of metallic materials.
© 2016 Cengage Learning Engineering. All Rights Reserved.

9

10

Other Point Defects
 A Frenkel defect is a vacancy-

interstitial pair formed when a
lattice atom jumps to an
interstitial site, leaving behind a
vacancy.

 A Schottky defect is unique to

ionic materials. To preserve
electrical neutrality in ionic
materials, for any vacancies, a
stoichiometric number of
cations & anions must be
removed from the lattice.
11

Equilibrium Concentration:
Point Defects
• Equilibrium concentration varies with temperature!
No. of defects
No. of potential
defect sites

Activation energy

 −Q v 
Nv
= exp 

 kT 
N

Temperature

Boltzmann's constant
-23
(1.38 x 10 J/atom-K)
-5
(8.62 x 10 eV/atom-K)
Each lattice site
is a potential
vacancy site

12

Measuring Activation Energy
Vacancy density doubles with increasing the temperature
from 300 K to 400 K.
What is the activation energy assuming it is not changing
with temperature?

13

Measuring Activation Energy
• We can get Qv from
an experiment.

 −Q v 
Nv
= exp 

 kT 
N

• Measure this...

• Replot it...

Nv

ln

N
exponential
dependence!

T

defect concentration

Nv
N

slope
-Qv /k

1/T
14

Estimating Vacancy Concentration
• Find the equil. # of vacancies in 1 m3 of Cu at 1000°C.
• Given:
ρ = 8.4 g/cm 3
A Cu = 63.5 g/mol
Qv = 0.9 eV/atom NA = 6.02 x 1023 atoms/mol
0.9 eV/atom
 −Q 
Nv =
v
-4
exp 

N

For 1 m3 , N = ρ
• Answer:

 kT  = 2.7 x 10

NA
x
A Cu

1273 K
8.62 x 10-5 eV/atom-K
x 1 m3 = 8.0 x 1028 sites

Nv = (2.7 x 10-4)(8.0 x 1028) sites = 2.2 x 1025 vacancies
15

Observing Equilibrium Vacancy Conc.
• Low energy electron
microscope view of
a (110) surface of NiAl.
• Increasing temperature
causes surface island of
atoms to grow.
• Why? The equil. vacancy
conc. increases via atom
motion from the crystal
to the surface, where
they join the island.
Island grows/shrinks to maintain
equil. vancancy conc. in the bulk.

Click once on image to start animation

Reprinted with permission from Nature (K.F. McCarty,
J.A. Nobel, and N.C. Bartelt, "Vacancies in
Solids and the Stability of Surface Morphology",
Nature, Vol. 412, pp. 622-625 (2001). Image is
5.75 µm by 5.75 µm.) Copyright (2001) Macmillan
Publishers, Ltd.

16

Imperfections in Metals (i)
Two outcomes if impurity (B) added to host (A):

• Solid solution of B in A (i.e., random dist. of point defects)

OR
Substitutional solid soln.
(e.g., Cu in Ni)

Interstitial solid soln.
(e.g., C in Fe)

• Solid solution of B in A plus particles of a new
phase (usually for a larger amount of B)
Second phase particle
-- different composition
-- often different structure.
17

Imperfections in Metals (ii)
Conditions for substitutional solid solution (S.S.)
• W. Hume – Rothery rule
• 1. ∆r (atomic radius) < 15%
• 2. Proximity in periodic table
• i.e., similar electronegativities

• 3. Same crystal structure for pure metals
• 4. Valency

• All else being equal, a metal will have a greater tendency to
dissolve a metal of higher valency than one of lower valency

18

Imperfections in Metals (iii)
Application of Hume–Rothery rules – Solid Solutions
Element

Cu
C
H
O
Ag
Al
Co
Cr
Fe
Ni
Pd
Zn

Atomic Crystal
Radius Structure
(nm)
0.1278
0.071
0.046
0.060
0.1445
0.1431
0.1253
0.1249
0.1241
0.1246
0.1376
0.1332

Electronegativity

Valence

FCC

1.9

+2

FCC
FCC
HCP
BCC
BCC
FCC
FCC
HCP

1.9
1.5
1.8
1.6
1.8
1.8
2.2
1.6

+1
+3
+2
+3
+2
+2
+2
+2

Table on p. 118, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

19

Point Defects: Vacancies & Interstitials
• Most common defects in crystalline
solids are point defects.
• At high temperatures, atoms
frequently and randomly change
their positions leaving behind
empty lattice sites.
• In general, diffusion (mass
transport by atomic motion) - can
only occur because of vacancies.

Point Defects: Vacancies & Interstitials
Schematic representation of a
variety of point defects:
(1) vacancy;
(2) self-interstitial; Ei > Ev , so ?
(3) interstitial impurity;less distortion caused
(4,5) substitutional impurities
The arrows represent the local
stresses introduced by the point
defects.

Impurities / Solid Solutions
• Impurities are atoms which are different from the host/matrix
• All solids in nature contain some level of impurity
• Very pure metals 99.9999%
• For Cu how much does that make ? ~ 1 impurity per 100 atoms

• Impurities may be introduced intentionally or unintentionally.

• Examples: carbon added in small amounts to iron makes steel, which is stronger
than pure iron. Boron is added to silicon change its electrical properties. Pt and
Cu are added to Gold to make it stronger, also!

• Alloys - deliberate mixtures of metals

• Example: sterling silver is 92.5% silver – 7.5% copper alloy. Stronger than pure
silver.

Solid Solutions
Solid solutions are made of a host (the solvent or matrix) which
dissolves the minor component (solute). The ability to dissolve is
called solubility.
• Solvent: in an alloy, the element or compound present in greater
amount
• Solute: in an alloy, the element or compound present in lesser amount
Solid Solution:
• homogeneous
• maintain crystal structure
• contain randomly dispersed impurities (substitutional or interstitial)
Second Phase: while solute atoms are being added, new compounds /
structures may form beyond solubility limit, or solute forms local
precipitates (discussed in Chapter 9)
• Nature of the impurities their concentration, reactivity, temperature and
pressure, etc decides the formation of solid solution or a second phase.

Factors affecting Solid Solubility
• Atomic size factor - atoms need to
“fit” => solute and solvent atomic
radii should be within ~ 15%
• Crystal structures - solute and
solvent should be crystallize in the
same structure
• Electronegativities - solute and
solvent should have comparable
electronegativites, otherwise new
inter-metallic phases are
encouraged
• Valency - generally more solute
goes into solution when it has higher
valency than solvent

Impurities in Solids
• Specification of composition
• weight percent

m1
x 100
C1 =
m1 + m2

m1 = mass of component 1

– atom percent

n m1
x 100
C =
n m1 + n m 2
'
1

nm1 = number of moles of component 1

COMPOSITION

Definition: Amount of impurity (B) and host (A)
in the system.
Two descriptions:
• Atom % (atomic level)
• Weight % (solid solutions)

• Conversion between wt % and at% in an A-B alloy:

CB =

C' B A B
C' A A A + C' B A B

• Basis for conversion:

x 100

Line Defects

Dislocations:

• are line defects,
• slip between crystal planes result when dislocations move,
• produce permanent (plastic) deformation.

Schematic of Zinc (HCP):
• before deformation

• after tensile elongation

slip steps

27

Dislocations
• Dislocations are linear defects: the interatomic
bonds are significantly distorted only in the
immediate vicinity of the dislocation line. This area
is called the dislocation core.
• Dislocations also create small elastic deformations
of the lattice at large distances.

Imperfections in Solids
Edge Dislocation

Fig. 4.3, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.
29

Issue at Hand

BASIC THINKING:
The energy required deform a
crystal in the manner described
above will require the breaking all
of the bonds on one plane of atoms!
However, measured forces required
to induce similar deformations in
single crystals were much lower.
How come?

DISLOCATIONS !

The explanation came in 1934 when Orowan,
Polanyi, and Taylor postulated the existence
of dislocations* in crystal structures.
Dislocations can be visualized as an extra
lattice planes inserted in the crystal, but not
extending through all of the crystal but
ending in the dislocation line (HALF PLANE).
Dislocation motion allows for the slip –
plastic deformation- of crystals.
*Volterra and by Timpe in 1900’s !

Line Defects
Linear Defects (Dislocations)

• Are one-dimensional defects around which atoms are misaligned

• Edge dislocation:

• extra half-plane of atoms inserted in a crystal structure
• b perpendicular (⊥) to dislocation line

• Screw dislocation:

• spiral planar ramp resulting from shear deformation
• b parallel (||) to dislocation line

Burger’s vector, b: measure of lattice distortion

31

Dislocation Motion
Slip Plane

DISLOCATION CORE:
Induces a stress field due to local
distortions in the structure

HOW DOES A DISLOCATION MOVE ?

DISLOCATIONS

•Material permanently deforms as dislocation moves through
the crystal.
• Bonds break and reform, but only along the dislocation line at
any point in time, not along the whole plane at once.
• Dislocation line separates slipped and unslipped material.

Dislocation Motion
• Dislocation motion is analogous to movement of a caterpillar:

• The caterpillar instead of spending a lot of energy to move its entire body at
once, moves its forward a bit and creates a hump, i.e. a dislocation ! The
hump then propagates along the caterpillar and moves the caterpillar by a
small amount.

More about Dislocations
Edge Dislocation

b

Screw Dislocation

•A useful way to describe a dislocation is to use Burgers Circuit:
•A Burgers Circuit is any atom to atom path taken in a crystal
containing dislocations which forms a closed loop.
•The vector used to close the circuit around a dislocation is
called Burgers Vector, b.
•Burgers vector describes the size and the direction of the
main lattice distortion caused by a dislocation

Imperfections in Solids
Screw Dislocation
Screw Dislocation

Dislocation
line
Burgers vector b

b
(b)
(a)

Adapted from Fig. 4.4, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.
36

Edge, Screw, and Mixed Dislocations
Mixed

Edge
Adapted from Fig. 4.5, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

Screw
37

DISLOCATIONS & CRYSTAL STRUCTURE
• Structure: close-packed
planes & directions
are preferred.

view onto two
close-packed
planes.

• Comparison among crystal structures:

FCC: many close-packed planes/directions; total # is 12
HCP: only one plane, 3 directions;
BCC: none (special case, # 48)

• Results of tensile
testing.

Mg (HCP)
tensile direction

Al (FCC)
14

Dislocations and Materials Strength
• FCC metals are in general more ductile; plastically deform well before
failure
• HCP metals are in general less ductile
• BCC metals are stronger due to intersecting slip planes; limited
dislocation activity; work harden very quickly

Dislocations and Materials Strength
Easily form dislocations and
allow mobility;
Not limited with coordination
numbers

Remember Covalent Bond !
How many bonds to break ?
Finding an equivalent site ?

Very large Burgers vector size;
Finding an equivalent site and
overcoming repulsive forces !

Planar Defects in Solids
• One case is a twin boundary (plane)
• Essentially a reflection of atom positions across the twin plane.

Adapted from Fig. 4.9, Callister 7e.

• Stacking faults
• For FCC metals an error in ABCABC packing sequence
• Ex: ABCABABC

Imperfections in Solids
• Solidification- result of casting of molten material
• 2 steps

• Nuclei form
• Nuclei grow to form crystals – grain structure

• Start with a molten material – all liquid

nuclei

liquid

grain structure

crystals growing

Adapted from Fig.4.14 (b), Callister 7e.

• Crystals grow until they meet each other

Polycrystalline Materials
Grain Boundaries
• regions between crystals
• transition from lattice of
one region to that of the
other
• slightly disordered
• low density in grain
boundaries
• high mobility
• high diffusivity
• high chemical reactivity

Adapted from Fig. 4.7, Callister 7e.

AREA DEFECTS: GRAIN BOUNDARIES
Grain boundaries:

• are boundaries between crystals.
• are produced by the solidification process, for example.
• have a change in crystal orientation across them.
• impede dislocation motion.
Metal Ingot

Schematic

~ 8cm

grain
boundaries

Adapted from Fig. 4.7, Callister 6e.

heat
flow

Adapted from Fig. 4.10, Callister 6e. (Fig.
4.10 is from Metals Handbook, Vol. 9, 9th edition,
Metallography and Microstructures, Am. Society for Metals,
Metals Park, OH, 1985.)
15

Microscopic Examination
• Crystallites (grains) and grain boundaries. Vary
considerably in size. Can be quite large
• ex: Large single crystal of quartz or diamond or Si
• ex: Aluminum light post or garbage can - see the
individual grains

• Crystallites (grains) can be quite small (mm or less)
– necessary to observe with a microscope.

Optical Microscopy
• Useful up to 2000X magnification.
• Polishing removes surface features (e.g., scratches)
• Etching changes reflectance, depending on crystal
orientation.

crystallographic planes

Adapted from Fig. 4.13(b) and (c), Callister
7e. (Fig. 4.13(c) is courtesy
of J.E. Burke, General Electric Co.

Micrograph of
brass (a Cu-Zn alloy)
0.75mm

Optical Microscopy
Grain boundaries...
• are imperfections,
• are more susceptible
to etching,
• may be revealed as
dark lines,
• change in crystal
orientation across
boundary.

polished surface

(a)

surface groove
grain boundary

ASTM grain
size number

N = 2n-1
number of grains/in2
at 100x
magnification

Fe-Cr alloy
(b)

Adapted from Fig. 4.14(a)
and (b), Callister 7e.
(Fig. 4.14(b) is courtesy
of L.C. Smith and C. Brady,
the National Bureau of
Standards, Washington, DC
[now the National Institute of
Standards and Technology,
Gaithersburg, MD].)

Optical Microscopy
• Polarized light

• metallographic scopes often use polarized light to
increase contrast
• Also used for transparent samples such as polymers

Microscopy
Optical resolution ca. 10-7 m = 0.1 µm = 100 nm
For higher resolution need higher frequency
• X-Rays? Difficult to focus.
• Electrons

• wavelengths ca. 3 pm (0.003 nm)
• (Magnification - 1,000,000X)

• Atomic resolution possible
• Electron beam focused by magnetic lenses.

Scanning Tunneling Microscopy
(STM)
• Atoms can be arranged and imaged!
Photos produced from
the work of C.P. Lutz,
Zeppenfeld, and D.M.
Eigler. Reprinted with
permission from
International Business
Machines Corporation,
copyright 1995.

Carbon monoxide
molecules arranged
on a platinum (111)
surface.

Iron atoms arranged
on a copper (111)
surface. These Kanji
characters represent
the word “atom”.

Imperfections in Solids
Dislocations are visible in electron micrographs

Fig. 4.6, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.
51

Catalysts and Surface Defects
• A catalyst increases the rate
of a chemical reaction
without being consumed
• Active sites on catalysts are
normally surface defects

Fig. 4.10, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

Single crystals of
(Ce0.5Zr0.5)O2
used in an automotive
catalytic converter
Fig. 4.11, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

52

Microscopic Examination
• Crystallites (grains) and grain boundaries. Vary
considerably in size. Can be quite large.
• ex: Large single crystal of quartz or diamond or Si
• ex: Aluminum light post or garbage can - see the
individual grains

• Crystallites (grains) can be quite small (mm or less)
– necessary to observe with a microscope.

53

Summary
• Point, Line, and Area defects exist in solids.
• The number and type of defects can be varied
and controlled (e.g., T controls vacancy conc.)
• Defects affect material properties (e.g., grain
boundaries control crystal slip).
• Defects may be desirable or undesirable

(e.g., dislocations may be good or bad, depending
on whether plastic deformation is desirable or not.)

56

Why are
we interested
Reading:
IMPERFECTIONS IN SOLIDS ?
Core Problems:
“Crystals are like people, it is the defects in them which tend to
make them interesting!” - Colin Humphreys.

Self-help Problems:

57

Measuring Activation Energy
Vacancy density doubles with increasing the temperature
from 300 K to 400 K.
What is the activation energy assuming it is not changing
with temperature?

58



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/ch04.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: other
