# ch05 (1).pdf

Source: junk_drawer/ch05 (1).pdf

Category: [[other]]

## Summary
CHAPTER 5: DIFFUSION IN SOLIDS ISSUES TO ADDRESS... • How does diffusion occur? • Why is it an important part of processing? • How can the rate of diffusion be predicted for some simple cases? • How does diffusion depend on structure and temperature?

## Full Content
CHAPTER 5:
DIFFUSION IN SOLIDS
ISSUES TO ADDRESS...
• How does diffusion occur?

• Why is it an important part of processing?
• How can the rate of diffusion be predicted for
some simple cases?
• How does diffusion depend on structure
and temperature?
1

Diffusion
Diffusion - Mass transport by atomic motion

Mechanisms
• Gases & Liquids – random (Brownian) motion
• Solids – vacancy diffusion or interstitial diffusion

Why Study Diffusion ?
• Diffusion plays a crucial role in…
• Alloying metals => bronze, silver, gold
• Strengthening and heat treatment processes
• Hardening the surfaces of steel

• High temperature mechanical behavior
• Phase transformations
• Mass transport during FCC to BCC

• Environmental degradation
• Corrosion, etc.

DIFFUSION DEMO
• Glass tube filled with water.
• At time t = 0, add some drops of ink to one end
of the tube.
• Measure the diffusion distance, x, over some time.
• Compare the results with theory.

2

How do atoms move in Solids ?
Why do atoms move in Solids ?
• Diffusion, simply, is atoms moving from one lattice site
to another in a stepwise manner
• Transport of material by moving atoms

• Two conditions are to be met:
• An empty adjacent site
• Enough energy to break bonds and cause lattice distortions
during displacement

• What is the energy source ?
• HEAT !

• What else ?
• Concentration gradient !

Diffusion
• Interdiffusion: In an alloy, atoms tend to migrate
from regions of high conc. to regions of low conc.
Initially

After some time

Adapted from
Figs. 5.1 and
5.2, Callister
7e.

DIFFUSION: THE PHENOMENA (1)
• Interdiffusion: In an alloy, atoms tend to migrate from
regions of large concentration.
Initially

After some time

Adapted
from Figs.
5.1 and 5.2,
Callister 6e.

100%
0
Concentration Profiles
3

DIFFUSION: THE PHENOMENA (2)
• Self-diffusion: In an elemental solid, atoms also
migrate.
Label some atoms (use isotopes)

After some time

C
A
D
B

4

More examples in 3-D !

Diffusion Mechanisms (I)

Energy is needed to generate a vacancy, break bonds, cause
distortions. Provided by HEAT , kT !
Atom moves in the opposite direction of the vacancy !

Diffusion Mechanisms (II)
Interstitial Diffusion

Much faster than vacancy diffusion, why ? Smaller atoms like B,
C, H, O. Weaker interaction with the larger atoms. More vacant
sites, no need to create a vacancy !

Diffusion Mechanisms (III)
Substitutional Diffusion:
• applies to substitutional impurities
• atoms exchange with vacancies
• rate depends on:
--number of vacancies
--activation energy to exchange.

5

PROCESSING USING DIFFUSION (1)
• Case Hardening:
--Diffuse carbon atoms
into the host iron atoms
at the surface.
--Example of interstitial
diffusion is a case
hardened gear.

Fig. 5.0,

Callister 6e.
(Fig. 5.0 is
courtesy of
Surface
Division,
MidlandRoss.)

• Result: The "Case" is
--hard to deform: C atoms
"lock" planes from shearing.
--hard to crack: C atoms put
the surface in compression.

8

Processing Using Diffusion
• Doping silicon with phosphorus for n-type semiconductors:
0.5 mm
• Process:
1. Deposit P rich
layers on surface.
magnified image of a computer chip

silicon
2. Heat it.
3. Result: Doped
semiconductor
regions.

silicon

light regions: Si atoms

light regions: Al atoms
Adapted from chapter-opening photograph,
Chapter 18, Callister 7e.

Example – MOSFET
• MOSFET
– Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor
– Field-effect transistor
– A simple switch
– ~ 6 billion FET in each state-of-theart transistor

TEM image of a single transistor
from Intel’s 45nm technology

Adapted from:
https://volga.eng.yale.edu/teachingresources/semiconductors

Diffusion
• How do we quantify the amount or rate of diffusion?

moles (or mass) diffusing
mol
kg
J  Flux 
=
or
2
(surface area )(time )
cm s m2s
• Measured empirically
• Make thin film (membrane) of known surface area
• Impose concentration gradient
• Measure how fast atoms or molecules diffuse through the membrane

M
l dM
J=
=
At A dt

M=
mass
diffused

J  slope
time

MODELING DIFFUSION: FLUX
RATE OF MATERIAL TRANSPORT

• Diffusion
Flux:

Material

• Directional Quantity (anisotropy ?)

• Flux can be measured for:
--vacancies
--host (A) atoms
--impurity (B) atoms

Diffusion is a time-dependent process !

10

CONCENTRATION PROFILES & FLUX
• Concentration Profile, C(x): [kg/m3]
Cu flux Ni flux
Concentration
of Cu [kg/m3]

Concentration Adapted
from Fig.
of Ni [kg/m3] 5.2(c),

Callister 6e.

• Fick's First Law:

Position, x

• The steeper the concentration profile, the greater the flux!
Concentration gradient is the DRIVING FORCE !
11

Concentration Gradient

STEADY STATE DIFFUSION
• Steady State: the concentration profile doesn't

change with time.

dC
• Apply Fick's First Law: J x = −D
Why is the
dx
minus sign ?
 dC 
 dC 
= 
• If Jx)left = Jx)right , then  
 dx  left  dx  right
• Result: the slope, dC/dx, must be constant
(i.e., slope doesn't vary with position)!
12

EX: STEADY STATE DIFFUSION
• Steel plate at
700º C

Adapted
from Fig.
5.4,

Callister 6e.

• Q: How much
carbon transfers
from the rich to
the deficient side?
13

Example: Chemical Protective Clothing (CPC)
• Methylene chloride is a common ingredient of paint removers. Besides being an
irritant, it also may be absorbed through skin. When using this paint remover,
protective gloves should be worn.
• If butyl rubber gloves (0.04 cm thick) are used, what is the diffusive flux of
methylene chloride through the glove?
• Data:
• diffusion coefficient in butyl rubber:
D = 110x10-8 cm2/s
• surface concentrations:
C1 = 0.44 g/cm3
C2 = 0.02 g/cm3

Example (cont).
• Solution – assuming linear conc. gradient
glove

C1

2
tb =
6D

paint
remover

skin

Data:

D = 110 x 10-8 cm2/s
C1 = 0.44 g/cm3
C2 = 0.02 g/cm3
x2 – x1 = 0.04 cm

C2

x1 x2

J = − (110 x 10

-8

dC
C2 − C1
J =-D
 −D
dx
x2 − x1

(0.02 g/cm 3 − 0.44 g/cm 3 )
g
cm /s)
= 1.16 x 10-5
(0.04 cm)
cm2s
2

Temperature Dependency !

What is the probability to find
a vacancy at a nearest site ?

Atom has to break bonds and
“squeeze” thru => activation
energy, Em ≈ 1 eV .

Temperature Effect!

The diffusion depends on temperature because;
a- # of vacancies in the vicinity
b- thermally activated successful jumps

Diffusion and Temperature
• Diffusion coefficient increases with increasing T.
 Qd 

D = Do exp−
RT


D = diffusion coefficient [m2/s]
Do = pre-exponential [m2/s]
Qd = activation energy [J/mol or eV/atom]
R = gas constant [8.314 J/mol-K]

T = absolute temperature [K]

Diffusion and Temperature

300

600

1000

10-8

1500

D has exponential dependence on T

D (m2/s)

T(C)

Dinterstitial >> Dsubstitutional
C in a-Fe
C in g-Fe

10-14

10-20
0.5

1.0

1.5

1000 K/T

Adapted from Fig. 5.7, Callister 7e. (Date for Fig. 5.7 taken from E.A.
Brandes and G.B. Brook (Ed.) Smithells Metals Reference Book, 7th
ed., Butterworth-Heinemann, Oxford, 1992.)

Al in Al
Fe in a-Fe
Fe in g-Fe

DIFFUSION AND TEMPERATURE
• Diffusivity increases with T.

• Experimental Data:
D has exp. dependence on T
Recall: Vacancy does also!
Dinterstitial >> Dsubstitutional
Cu in Cu
C in a-Fe
Al in Al
C in g-Fe
Fe in a-Fe
Fe in g-Fe
Zn in Cu
Adapted from Fig. 5.7, Callister 6e. (Date for Fig. 5.7 taken from
E.A. Brandes and G.B. Brook (Ed.) Smithells Metals Reference
Book, 7th ed., Butterworth-Heinemann, Oxford, 1992.)

19

Example: At 300ºC the diffusion coefficient and
activation energy for Cu in Si are

D(300ºC) = 7.8 x 10-11 m2/s
Qd = 41.5 kJ/mol

 Qd 

D = Do exp−
 RT 

What is the diffusion coefficient at 350ºC?
transform
data

D

Temp = T

ln D

1/T

Qd  1 
Qd  1 
  and lnD1 = lnD0 −
 
lnD2 = lnD0 −
R  T2 
R  T1 
Qd  1 1 
D2
 − 
 lnD2 − lnD1 = ln
=−
D1
R  T2 T1 

Example (cont.)
 Qd  1 1 
 − 
D2 = D1 exp −
 R  T2 T1 
T1 = 273 + 300 = 573 K
T2 = 273 + 350 = 623 K
D2 = (7.8 x 10

−11

 − 41,500 J/mol  1
1 
m /s) exp 
−


 8.314 J/mol - K  623 K 573 K 
2

D2 = 15.7 x 10-11 m2/s

Fick’s Second Law ; Non-steady state Diffusion
• In most practical cases, J (flux) and dC/dx
(concentration gradient) change with time (t).
• Net accumulation or depletion of species diffusing

• How do we express a time dependent concentration?

Concentration at a point x
Changing with time

?

Flux, J, changes
at any point x !

NON STEADY STATE DIFFUSION
• Concentration profile,
C(x), changes
w/ time.
• To conserve matter:

• Fick's First Law:

• Governing Eqn.:
14

How do we solve this partial differential equation ?

• Use proper boundary conditions:
• t=0, C = C0, at 0 ≤ x ≤ ∞
• t>0, C = Cs, at x = 0
C = C0, at x = ∞

Non-steady State Diffusion
• Copper diffuses into a bar of aluminum.
Surface conc.,
Cs of Cu atoms

bar
pre-existing conc., Co of copper atoms

Cs
Adapted from
Fig. 5.5,
Callister 7e.

B.C.

at t = 0, C = Co for 0  x  
at t > 0, C = CS for x = 0 (const. surf. conc.)
C = Co for x = 

Solution:

C (x , t ) − Co
 x 
= 1 − erf 

Cs − Co
 2 Dt 

C(x,t) = Conc. at point x at
time t
erf (z) = error function

2 z −y 2
=
e dy

 0
erf(z) values are given in Table
5.1

CS

C(x,t)
Co

DIFFUSION DEMO: ANALYSIS
• The experiment: we recorded combinations of
t and x that kept C constant.

 x 
C(x i , t i ) − Co
i 
= 1− erf 

Cs − Co
 2 Dt i 

• Diffusion depth given by:

= (constant here)

Non-steady State Diffusion
• Sample Problem: An FCC iron-carbon alloy initially containing 0.20 wt% C is
carburized at an elevated temperature and in an atmosphere that gives a surface
carbon concentration constant at 1.0 wt%. If after 49.5 h the concentration of
carbon is 0.35 wt% at a position 4.0 mm below the surface, determine the
temperature at which the treatment was carried out.

• Solution: use Eqn. 5.5
C( x, t ) − Co
 x 
= 1 − erf 

Cs − Co
 2 Dt 

Solution (cont.):

• t = 49.5 h
• Cx = 0.35 wt%
• Co = 0.20 wt%

C( x , t ) − Co
 x 
= 1 − erf 

Cs − Co
 2 Dt 

x = 4 x 10-3 m
Cs = 1.0 wt%

C( x, t ) − Co 0.35 − 0.20
 x 
=
= 1 − erf 
 = 1 − erf ( z )
Cs − Co
1.0 − 0.20
 2 Dt 
 erf(z) = 0.8125

Solution (cont.):
We must now determine from Table 5.1 the value of z for which the
error function is 0.8125. An interpolation is necessary as follows
z

erf(z)

0.90
z
0.95

0.7970
0.8125
0.8209

Now solve for D

z − 0.90
0.8125 − 0.7970
=
0.95 − 0.90 0.8209 − 0.7970

z = 0.93

x
z=
2 Dt

D=

x2
4 z 2t

−3
2
 x2 
(
4
x
10
m)
1h
=
D = 
= 2.6 x 10 −11 m2 /s
 4z 2t  ( 4)(0.93)2 ( 49.5 h) 3600 s



Solution (cont.):
• To solve for the temperature at
which D has above value, we use a
rearranged form of Equation (5.9a);

Qd
T=
R(lnDo − lnD)

from Table 5.2, for diffusion of C in FCC Fe
Do = 2.3 x 10-5 m2/s Qd = 148,000 J/mol


T=

148,000 J/mol
(8.314 J/mol - K)(ln 2.3x10 −5 m2 /s − ln 2.6x10 −11 m2 /s)

T = 1300 K = 1027°C

Non-steady State Diffusion
• Sample Problem: We have tube filled with water from a North Carolina shore to
Nice in southern France. We drop an ink droplet in NC at t=0. How much ink will
reach Nice in 1 second?
• Solution: use Eqn. 5.5

C( x, t ) − Co
 x 
= 1 − erf 

Cs − Co
 2 Dt 

EX: NON STEADY STATE DIFFUSION
• Copper diffuses into a bar of aluminum.

Cs

C(x,t)

t1
t
Co o

t3
t2

Adapted from
Fig. 5.5,
Callister 6e.

position, x


• General solution: C(x, t) − C
o = 1 − erf 

−
Cs

C (x, t) = concentration at
any time and position !

Co

x 

2 Dt 

“Gaussian error function"

DATA FROM DIFFUSION DEMO

• Experimental result: x ~ t0.58
• Theory predicts x ~ t0.50
• Reasonable agreement!

Example 5.3
• Copper diffuses into a bar of aluminum.
• 10 hours at 600C gives desired C(x).
• How many hours would it take to get the same C(x)
if we processed at 500C?
Key point 1: C(x,t500C) = C(x,t600C).
Key point 2: Both cases have the same Co and Cs.

• Result: Dt should be held constant.

• Answer:

Note: values
of D are
provided here.
16

Size Impact on Diffusion

Smaller atoms diffuse faster

Fast Tracks for diffusion !
e.g. self-diffusion of Ag :
-Areas where lattice is prestrained can allow for faster
diffusion of atoms
-Less energy is needed to
distort an already strained
lattice !

Important
• Temperature - diffusion rate increases with
increasing temperature (WHY ?)
• Diffusion mechanism – interstitials diffuse faster
(WHY ?)
• Diffusing and host species - Do, Qd is different for
every solute - solvent pair
• Microstructure - grain boundaries and dislocation
cores provide faster pathways for diffusing species,
hence diffusion is faster in polycrystalline vs. single
crystal materials. (WHY ?)

SUMMARY:
STRUCTURE & DIFFUSION
Diffusion FASTER for...

Diffusion SLOWER for...

• open crystal structures

• close-packed structures

• lower melting T materials

• higher melting T materials

• materials w/secondary
bonding

• materials w/covalent
bonding

• smaller diffusing atoms

• larger diffusing atoms

• cations

WHY ?

• lower density materials

• anions
• higher density materials
20

Example: Chemical Protective Clothing (CPC)
• Methylene chloride is a common ingredient of paint removers. Besides being an irritant, it also
may be absorbed through skin. When using this paint remover, protective gloves should be worn.

• If butyl rubber gloves (0.04 cm thick) are used, what is the breakthrough time (tb), i.e., how long
could the gloves be used before methylene chloride reaches the hand?
• Data (from Table 22.5)
• diffusion coefficient in butyl rubber:
D = 110x10-8 cm2/s

Example (cont).
• Solution – assuming linear conc. gradient
glove

2
tb =
6D

C1
paint
remover

skin
C2

 = x2 − x1 = 0.04 cm

x1 x2

D = 110 x 10-8 cm2/s

tb =

(0.04 cm) 2
(6)(110 x 10

-8

2

= 240 s = 4 min

cm /s)

Time required for breakthrough ca. 4 min



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/ch05 (1).pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: other
