# ch12.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/ch12.pdf

Category: [[other]]

## Summary
CHAPTER 12: STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES OF CERAMICS ISSUES TO ADDRESS... • Structures of ceramic materials: How do they differ from that of metals? • Point defects: How are they different from those in metals? • Impurities:

## Full Content
CHAPTER 12: STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES
OF CERAMICS
ISSUES TO ADDRESS...
• Structures of ceramic materials:

How do they differ from that of metals?
• Point defects:

How are they different from those in metals?
• Impurities:

How are they accommodated in the lattice and how
do they affect properties?
• Mechanical Properties:

What special provisions/tests are made for ceramic
materials?

1

CERAMIC BONDING
• Bonding:

--Mostly ionic, some covalent.
--% ionic character increases with difference in
electronegativity.
• Large vs small ionic bond character:

Adapted from Fig. 2.7, Callister 6e. (Fig. 2.7 is adapted from Linus Pauling, The Nature of the
Chemical Bond, 3rd edition, Copyright 1939 and 1940, 3rd edition. Copyright 1960 by
Cornell University.

2

IONIC BONDING & STRUCTURE
• Charge Neutrality:

--Net charge in the
structure should
be zero.
Cation

--General form:

Anion
The anion is larger than cation.

• Stable structures:

--maximize the # of nearest oppositely charged neighbors.
Adapted from Fig. 12.1,

Callister 6e.

3

COORDINATION # AND IONIC RADII
• Coordination # increases with

Issue: How many anions can you
arrange around a cation?

(covalent)
Zinc Sulfide

Adapted from Fig. 12.4,

SiC, ZnTe

Callister 6e.

(ionic)

Also MgO, MnS, LiF, and FeO

Adapted from Fig. 12.2,

Callister 6e.

(ionic)
Adapted from Table
12.2, Callister 6e.

Adapted from Fig. 12.3,

Callister 6e.

Like a BCC structure

4

Two interpenetrating FCC lattice,
one composed of anions and the other of cations

EX: PREDICTING STRUCTURE OF FeO
• On the basis of ionic radii, what crystal structure
would you predict for FeO?

Cation
Al 3+

• Answer:

r cation

Fe 2+
Fe 3+

r anion

0.140

= 0 .550

Ca 2+

based on this ratio,
--coord # = 6
--structure = NaCl

Table 12.3 in textbook

Anion
O 2Cl F-

=

0 .077

Data from Table 12.3,

Callister 6e.

5

AmXp STRUCTURES
• Consider CaF2 :
(Fluorite)

r cation
r anion

=

0.100
0.133

 0.8

• Based on this ratio, coord # = 8 and structure = CsCl.
• Result: CsCl structure w/only half the cation sites
occupied.
• Only half the cation sites
are occupied since
#Ca2+ ions = 1/2 # F- ions.

Adapted from Fig. 12.5,

Callister 6e.

6

Two types of cations

AmBnXp STRUCTURES
Example: Barium Titanate (BaTiO3)

6

Ceramic Density Calculations
Number of formula units within the unit cell

=

n (  AC +  AA )
VC N A

Sum of the atomic weights of all anions in the formula unit
Example: density of Sodium Chloride

Formula is NaCl
n´=4 (because there are 4 Na atoms and 4 Cl atoms
within a unit cell)
VC=a3=(2(0.102E-7)+2(0.181E-7))3=(0.566E-7)3

=
a=2rNa++2rCl-

4 ( 22 .99 + 35 .45 )
( 0 .566 E − 7 ) 3 ( 6 .023 E 23 )

= 2 .14 g / cm 3



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/ch12.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: other
