# ch21 (2).pdf

Source: junk_drawer/ch21 (2).pdf

Category: [[other]]

## Summary
Chapter 21: Optical Properties ISSUES TO ADDRESS... • What phenomena occur when light is shined on a material? • What determines the characteristic colors of materials? • Why are some materials transparent and others are translucent or opaque? 1

## Full Content
Chapter 21: Optical Properties
ISSUES TO ADDRESS...
• What phenomena occur when light is shined on a material?

• What determines the characteristic colors of materials?
• Why are some materials transparent and others are
translucent or opaque?

1

Optical Properties
Light has both particulate and wavelike characteristics
• Photon - a quantum unit of light
hc
E = h =




E = energy of a photon
 = wavelength of radiation
 = frequency of radiation
h = Planck’ s constant (6.62 x 10 −34 J  s)
c = speed of light in a vacuum (3.00 x 108 m/s)
2

Refraction
• Transmitted light distorts electron clouds.
no
transmitted
light

+

transmitted
light

+

electron
cloud
distorts

• The velocity of light in a material is lower than in a vacuum.
c (velocity of light in vacuum)
n = index of refraction 
v (velocity of light in medium)
-- Adding large ions (e.g., lead) to glass
decreases the speed of light in the glass.
-- Light can be “bent” as it passes through a
transparent prism

Material

n

Typical glasses ca. 1.5 -1.7
Plastics
1.3 -1.6
PbO (Litharge)
2.67
Diamond
2.41
Selected values from Table 21.1,
Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

4

Light Interactions with Solids
• Incident light is reflected, absorbed, scattered, and/or
transmitted: I0 = IT + IA + IR + IS
Reflected: IR



Absorbed: IA

Transmitted: IT
Incident: I0

Scattered: IS

• Optical classification of materials:
Transparent
Translucent
Opaque

single
crystal

polycrystalline
dense

Adapted from Fig. 21.10, Callister
6e. (Fig. 21.10 is by J. Telford,
with specimen preparation by P.A.
Lessing.)

polycrystalline
porous

5

Optical Properties of Metals: Absorption
• Absorption of photons by electron transitions:
Energy of electron
unfilled states

DE = h required!
filled states
Planck’s constant
(6.63 x 10-34 J/s)

freq.
of
incident
light

Adapted from Fig. 21.4(a),
Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

• Unfilled electron states are adjacent to filled states
• Near-surface electrons absorb visible light.
6

Reflection of Light for Metals
• Electron transition from an excited state produces a photon.
Energy of electron

IR

unfilled states
“conducting” electron
Electron transition

photon emitted
from metal
surface

filled states

Adapted from Fig. 21.4(b),
Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

7

Reflection of Light for Metals (cont.)
• Reflectivity = IR /I0 is between 0.90 and 0.95.
• Metal surfaces appear shiny
• Most of absorbed light is reflected at the same wavelength
• Small fraction of light may be absorbed
• Color of reflected light depends on wavelength distribution
• Example: The metals copper and gold absorb light in blue and green =>
reflected light has gold color

8

Reflectivity of Nonmetals
• For normal incidence and light passing into a solid having
an index of refraction n:

 n −12
R = reflectivity = 

 n + 1
• Example: For Diamond n = 2.41



2

 2.41 − 1 
R =
 = 0.17
 2.41 + 1
 17% of light is reflected
9

Selected Light Absorption in Semiconductors
Absorption of light of frequency  by electron transition
occurs if h > Egap
Energy of electron
Examples of photon energies:

blue light: h = 3.1 eV
red light: h = 1.8 eV

unfilled states

Egap
incident photon
energy h

filled states

Adapted from Fig. 21.5(a),
Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

• If Egap < 1.8 eV, all light absorbed; material is opaque (e.g., Si, GaAs)
• If 1.8 eV < Egap < 3.1 eV, partial light absorption; material is colored
• If Egap > 3.1 eV, no light absorption; material is transparent and
colorless (e.g., diamond)

10

Color of Nonmetals
• Color determined by the distribution of wavelengths:
-- transmitted light
-- re-emitted light from electron transitions

• Example 1: Cadmium Sulfide (CdS), Eg = 2.4 eV
-- absorbs higher energy visible light (blue, violet)
-- color results from red/orange/yellow light that is transmitted

• Example 2: Ruby = Sapphire (Al2O3) + (0.5 to 2) at% Cr2O3

• alters the band gap
• blue and orange/yellow/green
light is absorbed
• red light is transmitted
• Result: Ruby is deep
red in color

Transmittance (%)

-- Sapphire is transparent and
80
colorless (Eg > 3.1 eV)
70
-- adding Cr2O3 :

sapphire
ruby

60

50
40
0.3

wavelength,  (= c/)(m)
0.5

0.7

0.9

Adapted from Fig. 21.9, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.
(Fig. 21.9 adapted from "The Optical Properties of
Materials" by A. Javan, Scientific American, 1967.)

TRANSMITTED LIGHT: REFRACTION
• Transmitted light distorts electron clouds.
no
transmitted
light

+

• Result 1: Light is slower in a material vs vacuum.
Index of refraction (n) = speed of light in a vacuum
speed of light in a material

--Adding large, heavy ions (e.g., lead
can decrease the speed of light.
--Light can be
"bent"

Material
n
Lead glass
2.1
Silica glass
1.46
Soda-lime glass 1.51
Quartz
1.55
Plexiglas
1.49
Polypropylene 1.49
Selected values from Table 21.1,

• Result 2: Intensity of transmitted light decreases

Callister 6e.

with distance traveled (thick pieces less transparent!)
12

Applications of Optical
Phenomena

Luminescence
• Luminescence – reemission of light by a material
• Material absorbs light at one frequency and reemits it at another
(lower) frequency.
• Trapped (donor/acceptor) states introduced by
impurities/defects

Conduction band

Eg

trapped
states

Eemission
activator
level

Valence band

• If residence time in trapped state is
relatively long (> 10-8 s)
-- phosphorescence
• For short residence times (< 10-8 s)
-- fluorescence
Example: Toys that glow in the dark.
Charge toys by exposing them to
light. Reemission of light over time—
phosphorescence
14

APPLICATION: LUMINESCENCE
• Process:

Energy of el ectron

unfilled states

incident
radiation

Egap
filled s tates

emitted
light

electron
transition occurs
Adapted from Fig. 21.5(a), Callister 6e.

Adapted from Fig. 21.5(a), Callister 6e.

• Ex: fluorescent lamps

8

15

Photoluminescence
When photons impinge on a material which in turn re-emits light of a lower energy

Hg atom

UV light
electrode

electrode

• Arc between electrodes excites electrons in mercury atoms in the lamp to
higher energy levels.
• As electron falls back into their ground states, UV light is emitted (e.g.,
suntan lamp).
• Inside surface of tube lined with material that absorbs UV and reemits
visible light
- For example, Ca10F2P6O24 with 20% of F - replaced by Cl • Adjust color by doping with metal cations
Sb3+ blue
Mn2+ orange-red

• Electroluminescence – light emission as a consequence of an applied
voltage or electric field.
• Cathodoluminescence – light emission from a substance that has been
showered by electrons of higher energy.

The LASER
• The laser generates light waves that are in phase (coherent) and that travel
parallel to one another
• LASER
• Light
• Amplification by
• Stimulated
• Emission of
• Radiation

• Operation of laser involves a population inversion of energy states process
18

Population Inversion
• More electrons in excited energy states than in ground states

Fig. 21.14, Callister & Rethwisch 8e.

19

APPLICATION: PHOTOCONDUCTIVITY
• Description:

• Ex: Photodetector (Cadmium sulfide)
9

20

Other Applications - Solar Cells
• p-n junction:

• Operation:

P-doped Si
conductance
Si
electron
Si P Si

-- incident photon of light produces elec.-hole pair.
-- typical potential of 0.5 V produced across junction
-- current increases w/light intensity.
light

Si

n-type Si
p-n junction
p-type Si

n-type Si
p-n junction
p-type Si

Si

B

-

- -

+
+ + +

• Solar powered weather station:

Si

hole

creation of
hole-electron
pair

Si

Si
B-doped Si

polycrystalline Si
Los Alamos High School weather
station (photo courtesy
P.M. Anderson)

21

APPLICATION: FIBER OPTICS
• Design with stepped index of refraction (n):

Adapted from Fig. 21.19, Callister 6e. (Fig. 21.19 adapted from S.R. Nagel,
IEEE Communications Magazine, Vol. 25, No. 4, p. 34, 1987.)

22

SUMMARY
• Light radiation impinging on a material may be reflected
from, absorbed within, and/or transmitted through
• Light transmission characteristics:
-- transparent, translucent, opaque

• Optical properties of metals:
-- opaque and highly reflective due to electron energy band
structure.

• Optical properties of non-Metals:
-- for Egap < 1.8 eV, absorption of all wavelengths of light radiation
-- for Egap > 3.1 eV, no absorption of visible light radiation
-- for 1.8 eV < Egap < 3.1 eV, absorption of some range of light
radiation wavelengths
-- color determined by wavelength distribution of transmitted light

• Other important optical applications/devices:
-- luminescence, photoconductivity, light-emitting diodes, solar
cells, lasers
23



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/ch21 (2).pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: other
