# HW0 - 316.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/HW0 - 316.pdf

Category: [[academic-homework]]

## Summary
CHE316-003 Spring 2024 Homework Set 0 1. Write a brief autobiography. Consider including the reasons you chose chemical engineering, your career goals, and your interests. Also, if there is anything you would like the CHE316 team to know about you and your learning preferences/needs, this is a great place to share that. 2. Print (or copy) and sign the following agreement. Sharing of course materials and general course integrity: •

## Full Content
CHE316-003 Spring 2024
Homework Set 0
1. Write a brief autobiography. Consider including the reasons you chose chemical engineering,
your career goals, and your interests. Also, if there is anything you would like the CHE316 team
to know about you and your learning preferences/needs, this is a great place to share that.

2. Print (or copy) and sign the following agreement.
Sharing of course materials and general course integrity:
•

I acknowledge that all course materials1 made available to me for the course CHE316 taught at NC
State University in the Spring 2024 semester are for my personal use only. By signing this
document, I certify that I will not share any course content with a third party2 without written
permission from the course instructor.

•

I acknowledge that by submitting a document to Gradescope under my name and account, I am
indicating that all work is my own. Any group effort will be indicated as such.

Signature

1

Date

Both electronic and hard-copy, including (but not limited to) copies of lecture notes, videos, homework
assignments and solutions, exam assignments and solutions, and any handouts provided by the instructor.
2
Any person not enrolled in this course this semester; a personal, public, or commercial website; or any other news,
advertising, or social media.



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/HW0 - 316.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: academic-homework
