# s41467-019-13943-3.pdf

Source: junk_drawer/s41467-019-13943-3.pdf

Category: [[research-paper]]

## Summary
ARTICLE https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 OPEN 4D imaging of lithium-batteries using correlative neutron and X-ray tomography with a virtual unrolling technique 1234567890():,;

## Full Content
ARTICLE
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

OPEN

4D imaging of lithium-batteries using correlative
neutron and X-ray tomography with a virtual
unrolling technique
1234567890():,;

Ralf F. Ziesche 1,2, Tobias Arlt3, Donal P. Finegan 4, Thomas M.M. Heenan 1,5, Alessandro Tengattini6,7,
Daniel Baum 8, Nikolay Kardjilov 9, Henning Markötter3,9,10, Ingo Manke 9, Winfried Kockelmann2,
Dan J.L. Brett1,5 & Paul R. Shearing1,5*

The temporally and spatially resolved tracking of lithium intercalation and electrode degradation processes are crucial for detecting and understanding performance losses during the
operation of lithium-batteries. Here, high-throughput X-ray computed tomography has
enabled the identiﬁcation of mechanical degradation processes in a commercial Li/MnO2
primary battery and the indirect tracking of lithium diffusion; furthermore, complementary
neutron computed tomography has identiﬁed the direct lithium diffusion process and the
electrode wetting by the electrolyte. Virtual electrode unrolling techniques provide a deeper
view inside the electrode layers and are used to detect minor ﬂuctuations which are difﬁcult
to observe using conventional three dimensional rendering tools. Moreover, the ‘unrolling’
provides a platform for correlating multi-modal image data which is expected to ﬁnd wider
application in battery science and engineering to study diverse effects e.g. electrode degradation or lithium diffusion blocking during battery cycling.

1 Electrochemical Innovation Lab, Department of Chemical Engineering, University College London, London WC1E 7JE, UK. 2 STFC, Rutherford Appleton
Laboratory, ISIS Facility, Harwell OX11 0QX, UK. 3 Technische Universität Berlin, Strasse des 17. Juni 135, 10624 Berlin, Germany. 4 National Renewable
Energy Laboratory, 15013 Denver West Parkway, Golden, CO 80401, USA. 5 The Faraday Institution, Quad One, Harwell Science and Innovation Campus,
Didcot OX11 0RA, UK. 6 Grenoble INP, CNRS, 3SR, Univ. Grenoble Alpes, 38000 Grenoble, France. 7 Institut Laue-Langevin (ILL), 71 Avenue des Martyrs,
38000 Grenoble, France. 8 Zuse Institute Berlin, Takustraße 7, 14195 Berlin, Germany. 9 Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie (HZB), HahnMeitner-Platz 1, 14109 Berlin, Germany. 10Present address: Bundesanstalt für Materialforschung und -Prüfung, Unter den Eichen 87, 12205 Berlin, Germany.
*email: p.shearing@ucl.ac.uk

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

1

ARTICLE

I

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

n recent years, the advancement of X-ray computed tomography (CT) capabilities have facilitated a broadening of our
understanding of battery materials and devices, with studies
spanning multiple length scales, from nanometre to millimetre,
and multiple time scales from kilohertz to microhertz1. These
studies have collectively provided insight into the relationship
between electrode microstructure and performance2–4, battery
architecture, safety5–8 and new battery materials9–11. While the
majority of these studies have utilised X-ray CT, there is growing
interest in the application of neutron imaging for battery applications; the complementarities of X-ray and neutron imaging,
which are sensitive to electron and nuclear density, respectively,
provide signiﬁcant opportunities for correlative studies. This is
particularly true for lithium (Li) batteries, owing to the high
neutron sensitivity to low-Z materials (in particular Li and H).
Previous neutron imaging studies on Li cells have shown a high
potential for neutron radiography to examine the dynamic Li
diffusion process and electrode expansion12–14, electrolyte consumption15 and gas evolution16–18. Standard neutron tomography has been historically limited in application due to the long
exposure times, but enables a three-dimensional static view of the
Li distribution19,20. To the authors’ knowledge, LaManna et al.21
demonstrated the ﬁrst use of X-ray and neutron CT as complementary techniques on a Li battery.
The non-destructive nature of both X-ray and neutron CT
provides opportunities for four-dimensional (4D) studies, that is,
the ability to explore the evolution of three-dimensional (3D)
structures with time22–24. The authors have previously used highspeed X-ray CT to produce consecutive datasets of batteries
during discharge for quantitative displacement measurements via
digital volume correlation (DVC)25. The DVC of consecutive
tomograms was used to explore the evolution of electrode
structures in Li primary cells, which are widely used across
consumer electronics, backup-power and aerospace applications.
In the current manuscript, we extend our previous study to
evaluate the Li distribution in the MnO2 cathode of a commercial
CR2 Li-ion primary cell from Duracell26 using both X-ray and
neutron CT. The experiments were performed at the ID15A
beamline at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF),
known for high-speed and high-resolution imaging capability6,27,
and at the V7 CONRAD-2 neutron imaging beamline at the BER
II research reactor at Helmholtz Centre Berlin, known for its
combination of high-resolution neutron imaging with step-wise
sample evolution28,29.
The combination of X-ray and neutron CT presented here
provides powerful complementary information. The contrast in
X-ray imaging is mainly based on the absorption of X-ray photons by their interactions with the electron clouds within the
materials. The degree of X-ray absorption tends to increase with
the atomic number of the elements; therefore, elements with low
atomic numbers, such as Li, display weak interactions and thus
low contrast. Neutrons interact with the nucleus of an atom and
show high sensitivity for light elements, where the nuclei are
more closely packed30,31. X-ray CT is leveraged to identify features that are beyond the resolution capability of neutron CT,
whereas neutron CT, being highly sensitive to Li, is utilised to
track the spatial dynamics of light components such as: the Li
metal, Li ions, Li salt and the hydrogen in the electrolyte, as well
as formed gases.
To effectively evaluate and compare these multi-modal results,
a methodology for virtually ‘unrolling’ the characteristic spirally
wound cell captured in the 3D tomograms is used32–34: This
provides an effective means for data visualisation and correlation,
which, moreover, reveals erstwhile unseen trends in the spatial
distribution of performance within these cells. While X-ray CT is
increasingly widespread in its application to Li batteries, this
2

methodology of correlative imaging and data presentation/
visualisation will provide a new benchmark for battery characterisation. This can be readily applied to a range of battery
geometries and chemistries, providing unique insight into the
dynamics of Li transport during charge and discharge.
Results
X-ray tomography. X-ray and neutron imaging were performed
to study the Li intercalation, morphology changes and degradation processes in two different commercial CR2 Li/manganese
dioxide cells discharged under identical conditions as described in
the Methods/Experimental section. In the following sections, the
X-ray and neutron imaging analyses are discussed along with the
insights achieved from virtual unrolling of the spiral-wound
electrode architecture. A schematic illustration of the cell components and operation can be found in Fig. 1a.
Figure 2a shows three of the high-speed X-ray tomograms: one in
the pristine state and two at partly discharged state of charge (SoC)
after 1500 and 3900 s, where the corresponding SoC and discharge
curves are given in Fig. 1b; further details are given in
Supplementary Fig. 2a. The tomograms show highly X-ray
attenuating battery materials as being bright, such as the nickel
current collecting mesh, which is woven in the lower attenuating
MnO2 cathode, and the rectangular tab that connects the mesh to
the terminal. Owing to the low interaction with X-rays, the Li metal
electrode, the separator and the electrolyte are not clearly visible.
These tomograms provide information about the cathode
morphology changes and mechanical degradation during discharging. In the pristine state, the cathode already showed cracks,
which originated from the production process of the CR2 cell
where the electrode-separator layers were wound. Cracks appear
mainly at the outer circumference of the winding cathode and
more severely in the middle of the cell where the electrode’s
bending radius is higher, causing an increased strain. During the
discharging process, the region where the Li metal electrode is
expected to be present diminishes in size. This is caused by Li
removal from the anode, while the cathode starts to expand
heterogeneously as a result of the Li insertion into the LixMnO2
crystal structure.
During the expansion, the electrode showed a slight degree of
unravelling, which is caused by the movement of the current
collector mesh against the active material as a result of strain
triggered by Li insertion. Cracks were observed to expand
heterogeneously in the anti-clockwise direction with increasing
size into the outer windings, as previously reported by the
authors25. The current collector tab anchors the electrode at a
single point and is the unravelling centre. Stronger LixMnO2
cracking is detected in the upper axial cathode section than in the
middle section, likely as a result of the weaker electrode
compression, which facilitates Li intercalation and electrode
expansion (see Fig. 2a, Supplementary Fig. 3 and Supplementary
Fig. 4). Delamination of active material from the current collector
can create electrically (and therefore electrochemically) isolated
areas, which, in turn, can cause power and capacity loss.
However, cracks that expose additional LixMnO2 surface area,
through an increase in the electrode porosity, may also beneﬁt Li
insertion and cell performance due to voids that are ﬂooded with
highly Li-ion conductive electrolyte.
X-rays are a good probe for detecting mechanical degradation
processes in the LixMnO2 electrode, such as cracking, delamination or unravelling effects as outlined above, but are unable to
observe the electrolyte, the Li removal from the anode or the
insertion into the cathode. However, the latter can be inferred by
observing the electrode swelling and the loss of image intensity in
the LixMnO2 electrode.

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

e– on
discharge

b

–

V

e– on
discharge

X-ray

+

Potential [V]

a

3.0
2.8
2.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
1.8
1.6
1.4

Dc
Tomogram

4.5ohm - 096
0

Anode
Li-metal

c
Neutron

Cathode
current collector

2000

1000

3000

4000

5000

Discharge time [s]
3.0
Potential [V]

Cathode
MnO2

4.5ohm - 036

4.5ohm - 000

4.7ohm - 00

4.7ohm - 06
2.6
2.4
DC01
DC05

2.2
Electrolyte Separator

4.7ohm - 03

2.8

DC02
DC06

DC03
DC07

DC04
Tomogram

2.0
0

1000

2000

3000

4000

5000

Discharge time [s]

Axial

d
Virtual unrolling

X-ray

Radial

Extrapolation
Slice i
Interpolation
2 mm
Slice i+m

Slice i+n

2 mm

Neutron

Interpolation

Extrapolation

Fig. 1 Illustration of the cell operation, discharge curves and virtual unrolling technique. Image a shows an illustration of the studied Li/MnO2 CR2
primary cell from Duracell. Graph b shows the constant resistance discharge curve for the CR2 cell over 4.5 Ω, where simultaneous fast X-ray CT was
carried out. Graph c shows the constant resistance discharge curve over 4.7 Ω, where the discharge was interrupted for each neutron tomography after a
certain time interval. Image d displays the reconstructed tomograms from neutron and X-ray CT along with examples of sections extracted following virtual
unrolling of the reconstructions. Clearly visible in the X-ray images is the nickel current collecting mesh, which appears brighter than the LixMnO2 active
electrode material.

Neutron tomography. Figure 2b shows three neutron tomograms
of the CR2 cell at different SoC labelled from CR2-00, the pristine
state, to CR2-07. Highly neutron-attenuating elements, such as Li
and hydrogen, appear bright in the neutron tomograms, which
facilitates detection of the Li anode between the darker, lowly
attenuating cathode.
It is observed that an excess of electrolyte ﬁlled the middle
region of the electrode assembly of the pristine cell. Electrolyte is
also observed to occupy the region near the positive terminal at
the top of the cell.
Strong mechanical degradation effects on the LixMnO2
electrode are clearly visible on the upper axial cathode ending
at an early stage of Li insertion. Here, electrode cracking starts

after about 1500 s of discharging at a capacity of −225.71 mAh
(CR2-03), whereas in the cell, radial middle and bottom section
cracking is less pronounced and limited to the outer radial
electrode windings identical to the cracking detected in the X-ray
images (see Supplementary Figs. 5 and 6). The strong mechanical
degradation in the upper axial section is suspected on a high Li
intercalation by the cathode, which can be seen in the top
horizontal slices from CR2-03 onwards to CR2-05 of Supplementary Fig. 5. There are regions where the electrolyte
is completely removed and the consumed Li between the cathode
layers is visible. That strong mechanical effect occurs over a ca. 2
mm high region in the upper axial cell part seen in the
vertical slices of Supplementary Fig. 6 from CR2-03 onwards.

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

3

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

a

b

Pristine/0 s

Partly dc/1500 s
–240.65 mAh

Partly dc/3900 s
–604.90 mAh

Pristine/0 s

Partly dc/1500 s
–225.71 mAh

Partly dc/3900 s
–580.55 mAh

2 mm of strong
lithiation during
first dc period

Fig. 2 3D reconstructed operando X-ray and in situ neutron tomograms. a shows horizontal and vertical orthogonal slices out of the X-ray tomograms. In
total, 103 tomograms were recorded labelled from CR2-000 to CR2-102. One tomogram was recorded every 40 s with a total acquisition period of 2.8 s.
Here the pristine state and two partly discharged states are presented. The images show the cracking and volume expansion of the MnO2 electrode during
cell discharging. The highly absorbing steel casing is visible as very bright ring around the wounded membrane–electrode ensemble. The contrast was
optimised in order to improve the contrast within the lower attenuating components. b shows orthogonal slices of the neutron tomogram captured during
the discharge over a 4.7 Ω resistor, where the lithium electrode and the excess of electrolyte in the middle of the cell are clearly visible. Lithium
intercalation and electrolyte consumption are observed, as well as electrode cracking and electrolyte consumption. In total, eight neutron tomograms were
collected with an acquisition period of about 8 h. The discharging process was interrupted for each tomogram and labelled with CR2-00 from the pristine to
CR2-07, the fully discharged SoC.

4

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

Furthermore, due to the fast Li insertion, the outer electrode
winding is moved axially outwards by the rising mechanical stress
in the cathode, which leads to an obvious loss of Li conductivity.
The strong mechanical degradation effects are suspected as a
result of the high discharge rate of over −500 mA and a lower
electrode compression in the top axial region, which supports an
easy Li intercalation.
It should be noted that during the discharging process the
excess electrolyte, which is mainly stored in the middle core of the
cell, is consumed where a part may be used for forming an
electrode electrolyte interface (EEI) on the Li electrode35.
Furthermore, in the LiMnO2 electrode, the electrolyte is soaked
in the appeared cracks and voids, which makes the detection of
those pores more difﬁcult.
The excess electrolyte helps to compensate the electrolyte
consumption and maintain the Li-ion conductivity between the
electrodes during operation. During discharging, the excess
electrolyte is consumed steadily and disappears from the inner
region of the cell.
Near the axial top of the cell, the presence of electrolyte
diminishes from the current collector wires after a discharge of
about −225 mAh, whereas the electrolyte between the outer
electrode winding and the casing diminishes slightly until ca.
−750 mAh (see Supplementary Figs. 5 and 6). Furthermore,
electrolyte is ﬁlling the in the ﬁrst discharge period dried 2 mm
region of the axial top electrode section after about −449.38 mAh.
In general, after a discharge of −750 mAh, most of the excess
electrolyte in the radial middle section of the cell seems to have
moved into the cathode cracks or is ﬁlling the gaps left from the
removed Li.
In the axial middle and bottom part, the Li removal from the
anode can be seen by the thinning of the anode during discharge.
The distinction between Li and the surrounding electrolyte is
challenging at ﬁrst, but with the sustained electrolyte consumption, it becomes more apparent as the discharge proceeds. In the
pristine state, the Li metal foil is homogeneous and is very
heterogeneously removed over the ﬁrst part of the discharge
process initiated by a quick Li intercalation in the upper axial
section as mentioned above. In the further discharging process,
the axial middle and bottom sections show an obviously thinner
Li-electrolyte assembly on the opposite side of the current
collector tab (see Supplementary Fig. 5) and almost all of the Li
metal was consumed in the middle part of the discharged cell
near the tab, whereas the Li distribution on the opposite, left and
right side from the tab is still homogeneously distributed.
However, due to the similar attenuation of the electrolyte and
Li, regions may exist where Li is removed, but electrolyte is ﬁlling
the gaps.
During cell operation, the Li from the anode is intercalated into
the crystal structure of the manganese dioxide electrode, which is
detectable by an intensity increase in the LixMnO2 electrode in
the neutron tomograms. However, the intensity increase is weak,
and ﬂuctuations are difﬁcult to observe by eye, especially through
the electrode thickness. Virtual unrolling of the electrode
assembly and ﬂattening of the electrodes makes it possible to
plot the intensity changes along the length of the electrode
assembly from core to case. This was therefore applied to the data
and is discussed in the subsequent section.
Both methods show a very small deviation of the measured
battery component sizes, which qualiﬁes the data for a more
advanced data analysis techniques, discussed in the next section.
Supplementary Figures 7 and Fig. 8 show the calculation of the
standard variation of the thickness change in the battery steel
casing over the discharge time for the X-ray and neutron
tomograms. Both imaging methods show a standard variation
smaller than 1.5 µm.

ARTICLE

Virtual unrolling of tomography. A comprehensive spatial
analysis of the spiral-wound electrode assembly is challenging.
Therefore, to facilitate spatial quantiﬁcation along the length of
the spiral electrode, virtual unrolling of the datasets was applied.
To determine the electrode thickness change during the discharging process, an arc region out of the electrodes was selected,
which covers about 360° of the battery circumference and four
electrode windings, as shown in Fig. 1d for the unrolling of the
neutron tomogram. Subsequently, the high-intensity nickel mesh
was removed from the unrolled X-ray data by a thresholding
process, before the volumes were averaged over the electrode’s
height to get a mean value of the cathode expansion and the
intensity change.
Because of the similarity between the greyscale values of the
LixMnO2 and the current collector in the neutron data, it was not
possible to remove the mesh by a threshold. Hence, the mesh
appears as a constant value in the further processed neutron
images.
Figure 3 shows cut-outs of the processed data for the X-ray and
neutron images at different SoC. The images display the radial
outer electrode windings in the upper region. The X-ray image of
the cathode reveals a rapid volume expansion over the
discharging period from the pristine state (CR2-000) to the
partly discharged state to −604.90 mAh (CR2-096). The average
cathode volume increased by about +27%, from 389 to 495 µm
thickness, while the intensity decreases due to the Li insertion.
The neutron images show a similar volume expansion and
electrode movement during discharging. The volume change for
the discharged cell to −745.08 mAh is +30%, from 386 to 501 µm
in thickness, and +26.5% to – 580.55 mAh, which corresponds to
the +27% measured in the X-ray datasets by a slightly higher
capacity. Both measurements indicate that the SoC has a major
impact on the cathode volume expansion; this is caused by Li
insertion in the LixMnO2 structure and signiﬁcant electrode
cracking. Both discharge processes show a linear cathode volume
expansion with an equal volume increase for similar c-rates, seen
in Fig. 4a. Line proﬁles over the electrodes, shown in Fig. 3,
display a decrease of intensity of the cathode for X-rays and an
increase for neutrons. In both cases, the intensity changes
heterogeneously over the cathode with a lower intensity ‘shoulder’
for the X-ray and a high-intensity shoulder for the neutron
tomograms at the radial outward-facing LixMnO2 electrode side.
This indicates higher Li intercalation at the outer electrode side,
which can be explained by the higher compression of the material
at the inner side, caused by the electrode roll up during cell
manufacturing. The lower compression at the outer side allows
easier Li intercalation and less resistance for electrode expansion.
Figure 4b shows the almost linear intensity reduction for the Xrays and increase for the neutrons of the cathode during cell
discharge.
To determine the Li intercalation over the LixMnO2 electrode
length, the interval of the unrolling software was reduced to the
single electrode thickness and expanded in length over the whole
electrode, as shown in the horizontal cut through the X-ray
tomogram in Fig. 1d. Figures 5 and 6 represent three of the
unrolled cathodes, from the pristine to the partly discharged state,
of the X-ray and neutron datasets, respectively. In the case of the
X-ray images, the nickel mesh was removed via thresholding to
avoid corruptions of the LixMnO2 by the different intensity values.
In Fig. 5 the intensity of the X-ray data is averaged over the
electrode height and for a better signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) every
nine slices through the electrode thickness were combined,
starting from the inner electrode side. The intensities of the
electrode along the electrode length are then plotted in Fig. 5b for
the pristine state (CR2-000) and partly discharged states (CR2036 and CR2-096).

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

5

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

Lower Int. ‘shoulder’
outer LixMnO2 side

a

000
007
022
036
051
074
096

1.0
Discharge
0.9

6
5
4

0.8
0.7
FWHM

096
Int. [norm.]

036

000

Plot

Electrodes
from inside

X-ray:
Number
tomography
7

0.6

Capacity [|mAh|]

0

48

144

241

336

474

605

Breadth [µm]

389

414

431

442

467

486

495

0.5

Electrode outward
movement

0.4
5.5

b

5.0
4.5
Radial distance [mm]

4.0

Higher Int. ‘shoulder’
outer LixMnO2 side
Discharge
03

FWHM

00

0.95

06

7
6
5
4

Plot

Electrodes
from inside

Number
tomography

00
01
02
03
04
05
06
07

1.00

Int. [norm.]

Neutron:

0.90
0.85
0.80

Capacity [|mAh|]

0

45

135

226

316

449

581

745

0.75

Breadth [µm]

386

392

423

427

453

461

488

501

0.70

Electrode outward
movement
5.5

5.0
4.5
Radial distance [mm]

4.0

Fig. 3 Cathode thickness and intensity change during discharging. a shows cut-outs of virtual unrolled multilayer sections of the measured X-ray
tomograms at different SoC from the pristine state (000) to the partly discharged state (096) to −604.90 mAh. The thickness increases of the LixMnO2
electrode, during the discharge, is about 27% measured by the full-width at half-maximum (FWHM). The intensity plot shows a higher lithium intercalation
in the cell outward electrode side by a lower intensity ‘shoulder’. b shows a similar behaviour for the discharged cell imaged by neutrons. The electrode
swelling is about 30% for a cell discharge to −745.08 mAh (07) and 26.5% to 580.55 mAh (06), which shows a similar electrode expansion as for the
X-ray tomograms due to the similar discharge conditions. The plots illustrate the complementarity between X-rays and neutrons.

b

a
4.5ohm - 096
4.5ohm - 036

LixMnO2 thickness [µm]

480

X-ray
Neutron

440

0.98

4.7ohm - 06

4.5ohm - 000

460

Expanded
LixMnO2
cathode

1.00

4.7ohm - 03

420

LixMnO2 Int. [norm.]

500

0.96

Neutron

MnO2
cathode

0.90

Expanded

4.7ohm - 00

400

Discharged
SOC

X-ray

Pristine
SOC

0.94
0.92

Reduced
Li anode

MnO2
cathode

Li
Anode

0.88

LixMnO2
cathode

0.86

380
0

–200

–400
–600
Capacity [mAh]

–800

200

0

–200
–400
–600
Capacity [mAh]

–800

–1000

Fig. 4 Cathode thickness and intensity variation vs. capacity. Plot a shows the LixMnO2 electrode thickness increase by the lithium intercalation during
cell discharging by similar c-rates. For similar c-rates, the electrode thickness increases uniformly. But it seems that a slightly higher c-rate (blue) causes a
higher increase in the volume expansion in comparison to lower c-rates (red). The graphs in b compare the intensity change of the LixMnO2 electrode
during discharging. The lithium intercalation process in the electrode causes an intensity decrease for X-rays and an increase for neutrons (for comparisons
see Fig. 3).

6

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

0–8

b

Int. 096
[norm.]

Int. 036
[norm.]

Remove current collector mesh from
MnO2 cathode and unroll

9–17

18–26

27–35

1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
1.0
0.9
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5

Int. 000
[norm.]

a

Strong lithiation/cracking of the
outer electrode ending

0

25

50
75
Current collector tab

125
Length [mm]

150

175

200
225
Outer electrode
ending
5 mm

Inner electrode
ending

36–44

CR2-000
CR2-036
CR2-096
225 mm

Fig. 5 Lithium distribution at various depths of the LixMnO2 electrode during discharging, using unrolled X-ray tomography data of the upper part of a
CR2 cell. For the analysis of the lithium distribution over the MnO2 electrode thickness, a the current metal collector mesh is digitally removed before the
electrode is unrolled. The electrode thickness is divided into ﬁve depths and the normalised grey values plotted over the electrode lengths. b represents the
changed lithium distribution for the tomograms CR2-000, CR2-036 and CR2-096. The lithium content or cracking increases much more on the outer
electrode side (blue) compared to the inner side and the electrode outer ending, as indicated by the reduced grey values. The lithium content is highest at
the side of the current collector tab, exhibiting sinusoidal variation with increasing amplitude as the cell discharges.

b
Int. top
[norm.]
Int. mid
[norm.]

1.0

Top

Int. all
[norm.]

10 mm

CR2-00

1.0
0.9
0.8

Int. bot.
[norm.]

a

CR2-03

CR2-06

Strong lithiation
of the top
electrode part
during first dc
period

0.9
0.8
1.0
0.9

Strong
lithiation of the
the outer
electrode
ending

0.8
1.0
0.9
0.8
0

25

50

Inner electrode
ending

75

125
150
175
collector
Length [mm] Currenttab

CR2-00

Middle

200

225

Outer electrode
ending
Top
Middle
Bottom

Bottom

14.7 mm

CR2-03

CR2-06
225 mm

Fig. 6 Organisation of electrode unrolling (top, middle, bottom) and analysis of the lithium distribution in the LixMnO2 electrode during discharging
using neutron tomography data. The analysis of the lithium intercalation in the LixMnO2 electrode is divided in four sections, the top, middle, bottom and
overall part. a shows the pristine neutron tomogram divided in the studied parts. b displays the unrolled and over the thickness averaged electrodes of the
pristine (CR2-00), partly discharged to −225.71 mAh (CR2-03) and partly discharged to −580.55 mAh (CR2-06) SoC and the related line plots. The
intensity increase, due to the lithium intercalation, during discharging is clearly visible. On the top, the electrode undergoes a very strong lithiation during
the ﬁrst period of discharging. Over the electrode length, a sinusoidal intensity proﬁle with increasing period is observed, with maxima at the tab side. This
structure is caused by a higher lithium content on that side.

The overall intensity decreases during the cell discharge due to
the Li intercalation in the MnO2 structure and the cracking of the
electrode. A higher intensity change is clearly visible at the outer
windings of the electrode (left side from the current collector), with
a decrease observed over the electrode length inwards, which

indicates higher Li intercalation or cracking caused by a lower
compression of the active material. Furthermore, at the radial
outer cathode layer an inhomogeneous intercalation process is
detected, in the form of a sinusoidally shaped intensity variation
with increasing amplitude to the outer electrode ending. The

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

7

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

number and positions of the local intensity minima are consistent
with the number of the electrode windings and are positioned at
the left side from the current collector tab radial inward looking,
see Fig. 5b. It can be concluded that at this side, the compression of
the active material is less, and favoured an easier intercalation/
cracking followed by a simultaneous volume expansion. Compression may vary due to the current collecting tab anchoring the
electrode assembly against the steel casing on that side and beneﬁts
the porosity increase at that side during operation. The larger
intensity reduction at the outer electrode side can be explained by
being less conﬁned and more susceptible to expansion.
After unrolling the neutron datasets, the electrodes were split
into three sections at different heights of about 4.8 mm, each
labelled with top, middle, or bottom, see Fig. 6. The slices were
then combined through the electrode thickness to obtain a higher
SNR. The same procedure was carried out for the whole electrode
to analyse the intensity variation at the three different electrode
heights of the cell and compare them to the mean value taken
from the bulk.
Figure 6b shows the averaged electrodes of the pristine (CR200), partly discharged to −225.71 mAh (CR2-03) and the more
discharged to −580.55 mAh (CR2-06) SoC with the corresponding greyscale intensity line plots. The highest average intensity
increase of the three sections is detected at the cell top section for
the ﬁrst period of the discharging process (CR2-00 to CR2-03),
which seems to be the result of the less compressed electrodes,
which facilitate a better Li-ion intercalation in the axial upper 2
mm high cathode section as discussed in the neutron CT section
above. In the further discharging process, the middle and bottom
part of the battery cell show an increase in Li insertion, whereas
the upper part shows a stagnation in Li intercalation due to the
high degree of Li removal from the anode and the missing
electrolyte from the ﬁrst period of the discharging. After
discharging to −580.55 mAh (CR2-06) all three sections display
a similar amount of intensity increase, which means that the two
axial lower sections compensated the high Li insertion of the top
section from the ﬁrst discharge period in the second. In
corroboration to the X-ray images, the neutron data shows the
sinusoidal intensity to be most prominent in the more discharged
states with the highest intensity/Li increase at the current
collector tab side. This indicates that the position of the minima
and maxima of the sinusoidal intensity variation over the
electrode length vary from cell to cell, and may depend on
the local electrode compression from the manufacturing process.
The local intensity increase is also strong related to a local volume
increase of the cathode.
An irregular behaviour of the Li intercalation at the inner and
outer electrode windings is observed in Fig. 7. During the cell
discharge the X-ray images show no Li intercalation in a range of
about 5 mm for the inner cell winding and in a range of about 6
mm for the outer cell winding, see Fig. 7a. A possible reason is
that the Li metal electrode stops before reaching the inner and
outer endings of the wound LixMnO2 layer, as previously
reported25; the Li metal electrode is shorter in length than the
LixMnO2 electrode.
The LixMnO2 electrode went beyond the Li electrode resulting
in underutilized MnO2 at the ends. The same behaviour is
identiﬁed for about 5 mm of the inner and 7 mm of the outer
electrode endings in the discharged neutron tomograms, see
Fig. 7b. But here, the Li intercalation is prevented at the outer
electrode ending until the last two discharge steps from about
−580 to −745 mAh. Consequently, the most likely mechanisms
for the Li insertion in the electrode endings is Li diffusion
through the LixMnO2 electrode or that a longer transport through
the remaining electrolyte becomes more likely at a lower SoC
assumed the endings are sufﬁcient wetted by electrolyte.
8

However, despite the behaviour of the two cells investigated
here being very similar, we cannot say for certain that their
behaviour is statistically signiﬁcant and representative of all cells
operated under similar conditions.
Discussion
4D CT data were obtained from two primary CR2 Li/MnO2 cells
while they were discharged under identical conditions. Due to the
complementary nature of the two probing methods, one cell was
examined using operando X-ray CT and the other using in situ
neutron CT. The multi-modal characterisation was then assessed
using a novel virtual electrode unrolling technique.
X-ray CT allowed for the quantiﬁcation of mechanical degradation effects such as electrode cracking from the electrode
bending process during cell manufacturing. Whereas neutron CT
gives information about the electrochemistry such as Li-ion
transport and intercalation, electrolyte wetting of the cell and
consumption or gas formation by, for example, electrolyte decay.
Due to the limited interaction with light elements, Li insertion
could be detected only indirectly by X-rays, through an intensity
decrease in the LixMnO2 electrode. Neutron imaging enables the
direct detection of the Li diffusion from the Li metal electrode to
the LixMnO2 electrode. Consumption of excess electrolyte is
observed and is thought to be due to electrolyte reaction to form
the EEI layer, as well as ﬁlling the emerging cracks in the cathode
as it expands upon lithiation. More pronounced electrode
cracking and delamination, as a result of lower electrode compression, was detected at the top section of the electrode assembly, as well as the outer electrode windings. The neutron data
showed a very high activity in the top 2 mm of upper axial
electrode section in the ﬁrst period of the discharge, which
resulted in a high Li intercalation and electrolyte consumption,
up to the complete consumption of the Li from the anode and
removal of the electrolyte. The electrolyte-dry areas are wetted in
the second period of the discharging where that regions show a
lower electrochemical activity.
To identify weak ﬂuctuations in intensity caused by Li insertion, electrode wetting or mechanical degradation, virtual electrode unrolling was performed on multiple electrode sections and
over the full length of single electrodes. Multiple sections of the
electrode were unrolled and used to determine the linear average
electrode thickness change. It is suspected that the electrode
thickness increased with growing c-rate as a result of stronger
electrode cracking. A more favoured Li intercalation was detected
at the outer LixMnO2 electrode side due to a weaker compression,
as a result of the electrode bending of the active material. Additionally, a heterogeneous sinusoidal-shaped intensity variation
over the LixMnO2 electrode length was found, with a favoured
increase in Li insertion at the outer cell windings caused by lower
compression of active material and a higher Li conductivity by
better electrolyte wetting. Finally, lithiation was not detected at
the inner and outer cathode endings, which was caused by the Li
metal electrode ending before reaching the cathode end. Due to
the electrolyte and Li having similar attenuation coefﬁcients for
neutrons, a direct correlation between the SOC and the amount of
Li consumed could not be made, highlighting a limitation of this
technique for the most commercially relevant cells.
The combination of X-ray and neutron imaging modalities
provides clear beneﬁts for the interpretation of active electrochemical materials, which contain many components with
different X-ray and neutron attenuation properties. We expect
that this methodology will be valuable for studying and optimising a range of battery chemistries, not limited to the
primary cell studied here; it will also make great beneﬁts in the
ﬁeld of rechargeable cells. Moreover, the unrolling protocols

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

a

X-ray:
000

Outer ending

Inner ending
000

036

036

096

096
0.90
0.85

0.90

Int. [norm.]

Int. [norm.]

0.95

0.85
0.80
0.75

0.75
0.70
0.65

0.70
0

b

0.80

5

10

Neutrons:

15
Length [mm]

20

25

30

195

000
051

200

007
074

205

Inner ending

022
096

036

210
Length [mm]

215

220

225

220

225

Outer ending

00

00

03

03

06

06

0.95

1.00

0.90

0.90

Int. [norm.]

Int. [norm.]

0.95

0.85

0.85
0.80
00
04

0.75
0.80
0

5

10

15
Length [mm]

20

25

30

0.70
195

200

205

01
05

02
06

210
Length [mm]

03
07

215

Fig. 7 Electrode endings and middle part at different SoC. The images and line plots in a, b show the attenuation of the LixMnO2 electrode during cell
discharging for the X-ray and neutron imaged cells, respectively. In both cases, the inner electrode parts show an almost homogeneous lithiation (not
displayed here). The electrode endings do not show any lithiation activity for the X-ray scans and late start of lithiation in case of the outer electrode
endings for the neutron scans.

demonstrated here provide a new means for direct correlation
and comparison of multi-modal image data, which aid the
straightforward interpretation of spatial trends that are otherwise
challenging in a spiral-wound conﬁguration. Furthermore, these
data present an example of the powerful insight that may be
gained from 4D imaging; the bulk properties that computational
models were previously based on may now be replaced by spatially resolved, transient values. The implications of this lie in that
models would not need to apply the macroscopic assumptions
made by averaging bulk properties, and consequently, due to the
capability of incorporating local heterogeneities, they would be
able to provide a more accurate and comprehensive description of
the practical operation, degradation and failure of a cell.
Methods

Experimental. For the study of the Li+ separation from the Li metal anode and the
intercalation in the MnO2 cathode of a commercial CR2 primary cell X-ray and
neutron attenuation CT were used, where the imaging contrast is a contribution of
the absorption and scattering cross-sections of the elements. In both experiments,
the CR2 cells were discharged over a resistor of 4.7 Ω. However, the resistivity used
for the X-ray measurements was at a value 4.5 Ω due to the ﬂuctuations given by
the manufacturer.

High-speed X-ray tomograms were collected at the ID15A imaging beamline at
the ESRF. For the X-ray experiment, the battery was discharged over a 4.5 Ω
resistor and the upper cell part was imaged during 2.8 s of total exposure time every
40 s with a total number of tomograms of 103. The tomographies are labelled from
CR2-000 to CR2-102. For the current investigation, seven tomograms were used for
the data analysis starting with the pristine SoC at the discharge time 0 s and
expanding time intervals between each tomography (300 s, 900 s, 1500 s, 2100 s,
3000 s, 3900 s). The tomograms are marked by blue squares in the discharge curve
in Fig. 1b. Figure 2a shows orthogonal slices of three of the 3D reconstructed X-ray
tomograms, in the pristine state, partly discharged to −240.65 and −604.90 mAh.
Neutron tomograms were taken at the V7 CONRAD-2 imaging beamline at
HZB. Tomograms were collected in the pristine SoC and after with an increasing
time interval between each tomography (300 s, 900 s, 1500 s, 2100 s, 3000 s, 3900 s,
5100 s). The discharge process was interrupted during tomography acquisition due
to the long exposure time of 8 h per tomogram. Based on the larger ﬁeld-of-view
(FOV), the whole cell size could be imaged which is displayed in Fig. 2b, as
orthogonal slices of the reconstructed 3D images for different SoC. The discharge
proﬁle is given in Fig. 1c and shows all eight discharge steps, here labelled with
CR2-00, for the pristine state, to CR2-07 for the almost fully discharged cell: red
squares mark the SoCs where neutron tomograms were recorded.
3D images can give a comprehensive insight into the structure, working
principle and morphological changes of a cell. However, it can be challenging to
extract meaningful spatial information from a spiral-wound structure. To facilitate
interpretation of the spatial data along the electrode length, a plug-in from the
Amira Software Package was applied, which was created by Konrad-Zuse-Zentrum
Berlin (ZIB)34 for virtually unrolling the spiral-wound structure and take

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

9

ARTICLE

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

measurements along its length. This enables analysis of morphological changes and
degradation processes inside the battery electrodes as well as on its surface, and
more direct correlation and comparison of the multi-modal image data. An
example of an unrolled section is shown in Fig. 1d and a detailed description of the
technique is given below.
CR2: Li/manganese dioxide. The commercial CR2 primary battery from Duracell26 is a spirally wound cylindrical cell, made for high-pulse and middle-rate
applications, with an electrode layer sequence of ‘…LixMnO2|separator|Li|separator|LixMnO2|separator|Li…’ (Fig. 1a), where the thick porous MnO2 cathode is
pasted onto a supporting nickel current collector mesh. The Li metal anode
functions as its own current collector, and both electrodes are separated by a
microporous polypropylene Li-ion-permeable separator. All cell components are
packed in a steel container and are soaked with a non-aqueous, Li-ion-conducting,
organic electrolyte. During the discharge process, Li is oxidised at the Li metal
anode, which involves the loss of electrons and the release of Li+ ions into the
electrolyte. The Li+ ions pass through the Li-ion-permeable, electrolyte soaked
separator and intercalate into the crystal structure of the porous LixMnO2 cathode
by the reduction of Li+ with the freed electrons from the anode. The Li intercalation in MnO2 is a multiple discharge process with different stages of MnO2
reduction described by Nardi et al.36 and involves a phase transformation from the
tetravalent MnIVO2 to the trivalent MnIIIO2 with a noticeable increase in volume.
The overall reaction is given by:
xLi þ MnIV O2 ! Lix MnIII O2 :

ð1Þ

High-speed X-ray CT. The X-ray imaging experiments were carried out with a
76 keV monochromatic X-ray beam on the high-speed X-ray imaging beamline
ID15A at ESRF6,27. This beamline has a high photon ﬂux and brilliance, which
enables imaging with a high spatial and temporal resolution. The used camera
system included a PCO Dimax (PC AG, Germany) high-speed camera, which
allowed recording of 12-bit images with a pixel size of 10.87 µm and a pixel matrix
of 794 × 800 pixel, which limited the FOV to 8.6 × 8.7 mm2 (horizontal × vertical).
Due to the restricted FOV, only a half of the battery was imaged with the centre in
the middle of the cell. To capture the cell fully in the lateral direction ‘extended
FOV’ tomography was used. For that the centre of rotation was placed close to the
edge of the FOV and 360° tomograms composed of two 180 half tomograms with
2 × 2000 half projections and an angular increment of 0.09° were taken. One
tomogram was made every 40 s with a total acquisition time of 2.8 s and 0.7 ms
per radiograph. During the experiment, the CR2 battery was discharged with a
4.5 Ω resistor (see Fig. 1b). The electrical contact between the constant resistor
circuit and the battery was made by using an electrical slip ring (P4 + Compact Slip
Ring, Moog, UK) built into the ID15A rotation stage (ABR1000, Aerotech, USA),
which allowed continuous rotation. The electrical connection was made by a Cu
foil pressed against the positive and negative battery terminals and tightly wrapped
with electrical tape. Electrical wires were soldered to the Cu tabs and connected to
the slip ring and the resistor. To minimise beam hardening artefacts, a ﬁnely woven
X-ray transparent Cu mesh was connected to the positive terminal tab, at the
battery head, and ﬁxed sideward, through the FOV, along the battery casing down
to the cell bottom. After battery discharging and image recording, all 103 recorded
tomograms were reconstructed by using standard reconstruction software and
ﬁltered back projection (FBP) reconstruction algorithm. A more detailed description of the measurements can be found in the authors previous report25.
High-resolution neutron CT. The tomographic neutron imaging was carried out
on the V7 CONRAD-2 neutron imaging beamline at the BER II research reactor at
HZB28,29, using a polychromatic cold neutron beam collimated by a pinhole with
an L/D from 500 and a neutron ﬂux of 2.7 × 106 n cm−2s with a wavelength
maximum at 2.58 Å at the imaging position. Radiographic projections were
recorded by an indirect neutron imaging detector with a 10 µm GADOX (gadoliniumoxisulﬁte, Proxivision, Germany) scintillator screen and CCD camera
(DW436N-BC, Oxford Instruments Andor, UK) in combination with a bright
inﬁnity-corrected optics using TV-Heliﬂex lens (Rodenstock f = 50 mm, f/1.07,
Numerical Aperture = 0.42) and Nikon photo lens (Nikkor 50 mm 1:1.2, Nikon,
Japan) as described in37, which was employed at the middle measuring position of
the instrument where beam conditions are optimised for neutron ﬂux and high
spatially resolved imaging. The CR2 Li-ion cell was positioned in the front of the
scintillator screen and ﬁlled the complete 26 mm diameter FOV, which was given
by the rim of the photo lens. The camera array has 2048 × 2048 pixel with a pixel
size of 12.9 µm. Due to the highly neutron-attenuating hydrogen content in the
outer plastic shell, the CR2 battery shell was removed for a better neutron transmission before it was mounted on the V7 rotation stage (Goniometer 409, HUBER
Diffraktionstechnik, Germany). The cell was mechanically connected by a
cylindrical TEFLON holder, around the lower battery casing, which was screwed to
an insulating PTFE cylinder ﬁxed on the rotation stage. The negative electrical
contact was made by a copper wire glued with aluminium tape to the battery
casing, which contacted the negative terminal, and by a cable soldered to a nickelplated crocodile clip connected to the positive terminal at the cell head. Both cables
were led away downwards and upwards, respectively, out of the FOV and connected to a potentiostat (1000E, Gamry Instruments, USA). The ﬁrst tomogram
10

was taken in the pristine state before discharging and the following datasets were
collected consecutively with an increasing time interval between each tomogram.
The discharging process was made over a 4.7 Ω resistance and interrupted for
about 8 h for taking tomograms (see Fig. 1c) over a 360° rotation with an angular
increment of 0.45° and 800 steps. For each angular step, three radiographies were
made with 9 s of exposure time and 5 s readout time of the camera. The three
radiographies where combined to one projection by a median ﬁlter to reduce white
spots, caused by scattered or fast neutrons and secondary γ-rays, which hit the
camera chip. The data collection and discharging processes were controlled using
trigger signals between the beamline control software (LabVIEW, National
Instruments, USA) and the potentiostat. For data processing, the ‘Remove Outliers’
and median ﬁlter of ImageJ Fiji38 were used to clean the 16-bit images from
remaining white spots 3D reconstructions were performed using Octopus
8.9 software (XRE, Gent, Belgium) with FBP reconstruction algorithm and beam
hardening correction.
Virtual unrolling of the battery electrodes. The access to uneven, folded or rolled
surfaces within a sample is hardly possible. It is generally possible to extract small
ﬂattened areas out of a 3D volume, but these areas mostly do not deliver meaningful results. To overcome this, we applied a plug-in for Amira (Amira 6.5, ZIB/
Thermo Fisher Scientiﬁc, Germany/USA), which was created by the ZIB34, to get
access to our data. Originally developed for papyri unfolding project, we used this
plug-in for battery unrolling. The working principle of unrolling this compound is
shown in Fig. 1d and Supplementary Fig. 1. The electrode-separator compound
within a battery of type CR2 is rolled. Consequently, each layer of the 3D volume
represents a spiral-like course of this compound, see Supplementary Fig. 1b. A
reconstructed 3D volume is given in Supplementary Fig. 1a. The experimentalist
has to deﬁne certain contours in several slices of the 3D volume. These contours are
depicted by the red line in Supplementary Fig. 1a. The same contours are linearly
interpolated for slices in between, while the contours for axial outer slices are
created by constant extrapolation. Therewith, the whole 3D volume is included in
this reshaping of the data set. Taking all contours into account, a surface is spanned
in the 3D volume. For example, a contour is given in Supplementary Fig. 1b as a
red line. If desired, the line can be spread to an interval, as marked by the white
lines. For each point on the red line, perpendicular line segments are created by the
plug-in, and consequently, neighbouring surfaces are created. All points along these
line segments of the 3D volume are subsequently written into a new volume data
set, which contains the unrolled volume of the battery. A cross-section of the
unrolled volume is given in Supplementary Fig. 1c. An average of several slices
usually reveals a good signal to noise Supplementary Fig. 1d. A reslice of the
unrolled volume given in Supplementary Fig. 1e, showing a single component of
the battery in a ﬂat shape such as the nickel current collector mesh. The latter step
was done using ImageJ39.

Data availability
The data supporting this study can be made available from the corresponding author
upon request.

Received: 25 March 2019; Accepted: 4 December 2019;

References
1.

2.

3.
4.

5.
6.

7.

8.

Finegan, D. P. et al. Identifying the cause of rupture of Li-ion batteries during
thermal runaway. Adv. Sci. 5, 1700369 1–13 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1002/
advs.201700369.
Shearing, P. R., Howard, L. E., Jørgensen, P. S., Brandon, N. P. & Harris, S. J.
Characterization of the 3-dimensional microstructure of a graphite
negative electrode from a Li-ion battery. Electrochem. commun. 12, 374–377
(2010).
Ebner, M., Chung, D. W., García, R. E. & Wood, V. Tortuosity anisotropy in
lithium-ion battery electrodes. Adv. Energy Mater. 4, 1–6 (2014).
Eastwood, D. S. et al. Three-dimensional characterization of electrodeposited
lithium microstructures using synchrotron X-ray phase contrast imaging.
Chem. Commun. 51, 266–268 (2015).
Finegan, D. P. et al. In-operando high-speed tomography of lithium-ion
batteries during thermal runaway. Nat. Commun. 6, 1–10 (2015).
Finegan, D. P. et al. Investigating lithium-ion battery materials during
overcharge-induced thermal runaway: an operando and multi-scale X-ray CT
study. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 18, 30912–30919 (2016).
Finegan, D. P. et al. Characterising thermal runaway within lithium-ion cells
by inducing and monitoring internal short circuits. Energy Environ. Sci. 10,
1377–1388 (2017).
Finegan, D. P. et al. Tracking internal temperature and structural dynamics
during nail penetration of lithium-ion cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 164,
A3285–A3291 (2017).

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3

9.
10.

11.

12.
13.

14.

15.

16.
17.

18.

19.

20.
21.

22.

23.
24.

25.

26.
27.
28.

29.
30.

31.
32.

33.
34.

Tan, C. et al. Four-dimensional studies of morphology evolution in lithium
−sulfur batteries. ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 1, 5090–5100 (2018).
Taiwo, O. O. et al. Microstructural degradation of silicon electrodes during
lithiation observed via operando X-ray tomographic imaging. J. Power Sources
342, 904–912 (2017).
Risse, S. et al. Multidimensional operando analysis of macroscopic structure
evolution in lithium sulfur cells by X-ray radiography. Phys. Chem. Chem.
Phys. 18, 10630–10636 (2016).
Siegel, J. B. et al. Neutron imaging of lithium concentration in LFP pouch cell
battery. J. Electrochem. Soc. 158, A523–A529 (2011).
Siegel, J. B., Stefanopoulou, A. G., Hagans, P., Ding, Y. & Gorsich, D.
Expansion of lithium ion pouch cell batteries: observations from neutron
imaging. J. Electrochem. Soc. 160, A1031–A1038 (2013).
Zhou, H. et al. Probing multiscale transport and inhomogeneity in a lithiumion pouch cell using in situ neutron methods. ACS Energy Lett. 1, 981–986
(2016).
Lanz, M., Lehmann, E., Imhof, R., Exnar, I. & Novák, P. In situ neutron
radiography of lithium-ion batteries during charge/discharge cycling. J. Power
Sources 101, 177–181 (2001).
Michalak, B. et al. Gas evolution in operating lithium-ion batteries studied
in situ by neutron imaging. Sci. Rep. 5, 1–9 (2015).
Michalak, B. et al. Gas evolution in LiNi0.5Mn1.5O4/graphite cells studied in
operando by a combination of differential electrochemical mass spectrometry,
neutron imaging, and pressure measurements. Anal. Chem. 88, 2877–2883
(2016).
Goers, D. et al. In situ neutron radiography of lithium-ion batteries: The gas
evolution on graphite electrodes during the charging. J. Power Sources 130,
221–226 (2004).
Kardjilov, N. et al. Industrial applications at the new cold neutron radiography
and tomography facility of the HMI. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res. Sect. A
542, 16–21 (2005).
Riley, G. V., Hussey, D. S. & Jacobson, D. L. In situ neutron imaging of
alkaline and lithium-ion batteries. ECS Trans. 25, 75–83 (2010).
LaManna, J. M., Hussey, D. S., Baltic, E. M. & Jacobson, D. L. Improving
material identiﬁcation by combining x-ray and neutron tomography. Dev. XRay Tomogr. XI 1039104, 1–7 (2017).
Eastwood, D. S. et al. Lithiation-induced dilation mapping in a lithium-ion
battery electrode by 3D X-ray microscopy and digital volume correlation. Adv.
Energy Mater. 4, 1–7 (2014).
Heenan, T. M. M. et al. 4D nano-tomography of electrochemical energy
devices using lab-based X-ray imaging. Nano Energy 47, 556–565 (2018).
Pietsch, P. et al. Quantifying microstructural dynamics and electrochemical
activity of graphite and silicon-graphite lithium ion battery anodes. Nat.
Commun. 7, 1–11 (2016).
Finegan, D. P. et al. Quantifying bulk electrode strain and material
displacement within lithium batteries via high-speed operando tomography
and digital volume correlation. Adv. Sci. 3, 1–11 (2015).
Duracell. Duracell, Ultra CR2 Lithium/Manganese dioxide datasheet. 2 (2008).
https://docs.rs-online.com/21bf/0900766b81265659.pdf.
Di Michiel, M. et al. Fast microtomography using high energy synchrotron
radiation. Rev. Sci. Instrum. 76, 1–7 (2005).
Kardjilov, N., Hilger, A., Manke, I., Woracek, R. & Banhart, J. CONRAD-2:
the new neutron imaging instrument at the Helmholtz–Zentrum Berlin. J.
Appl. Crystallogr. 49, 195–202 (2016).
Kardjilov, N., Hilger, A. & Manke, I. CONRAD-2: Cold Neutron Tomography
and Radiography at BER II (V7). J. Large-scale Res. Facil. 2, 1–6 (2016).
Banhart, J. Advanced Tomographic Methods in Materials Research and
Engineering (Oxford University Press, New York, 2008). https://doi.org/
10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199213245.001.0001.
Kardjilov, N., Manke, I., Woracek, R., Hilger, A. & Banhart, J. Advances in
neutron imaging. Mater. Today 21, 652–672 (2018).
Mocella, V., Brun, E., Ferrero, C. & Delattre, D. Revealing letters in rolled
Herculaneum papyri by X-ray phase-contrast imaging. Nat. Commun. 6, 1–6
(2015).
Seales, W. B. et al. From damage to discovery via virtual unwrapping: reading
the scroll from En-Gedi. Sci. Adv. 2, 1–10 (2016).
Baum, D. et al. Revealing hidden text in rolled and folded papyri. Appl. Phys.
A 123, 1–7 (2017).

ARTICLE

35. Gauthier, M. et al. Electrode−electrolyte interface in Li-ion batteries: current
understanding and new insights. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 6, 4653–4672 (2015).
36. Nardi, J. C. Characterization of the Li/MnO2 multistep discharge. J.
Electrochem. Soc. 132, 4–8 (1982).
37. Williams, S. H. et al. Detection system for microimaging with neutrons. J
Instrum. 7, P02014-P02014 (2012).
38. Schindelin, J. et al. Fiji: an open-source platform for biological-image analysis.
Nat. Methods 9, 676–682 (2012).
39. Schneider, C. A., Rasband, W. S. & Eliceiri, K. W. NIH Image to ImageJ: 25
years of image analysis. Nat. Methods 9, 671–675 (2012).

Acknowledgements
This work was carried out with funding from the Faraday Institution (faraday.ac.uk; EP/
S003053/1), grant number FIRG001. We would like to acknowledge the Royal Academy
of Engineering (CiET1718\59) for ﬁnancial support. This work was authored in part by
the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, operated by Alliance for Sustainable Energy,
LLC, for the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under Contract No. DE-AC3608GO28308.

Author contributions
R.F.Z. and P.R.S. conceived the study. R.F.Z. led the experimental work and analysis. T.A.
and D.B. contributed the virtual electrode unrolling of the neutron and X-ray tomography data. D.P.F. provided the 4D X-ray CR2 datasets, measured on the ID15 beamline
at ESRF, and helped with the data analysis. N.K. and H.M., beamline scientists on the
CONRAD neutron imaging beamline at HZB, supported the neutron imaging of the CR2
cell and did the 3D reconstruction of the measured data. A.T., beamline scientist on the
D50 neutron imaging beamline at ILL, helped to perform the 4D scans of the CR2 cell.
T.M.M.H., I.M., W.K., D.J. L.B., and P.R.S. supported the work with their expertise in
battery science and X-ray, and neutron imaging, and helped to design the experiment
and analysis. All authors have contributed to writing and reviewing the manuscript.

Competing interests
The authors declare no competing interests.

Additional information
Supplementary information is available for this paper at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467019-13943-3.
Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to P.R.S.
Peer review information Nature Communications thanks Les Butler, Bradley Trembacki
and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this
work. Peer reviewer reports are available.
Reprints and permission information is available at http://www.nature.com/reprints
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional afﬁliations.

Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing,
adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give
appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative
Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party
material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless
indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the
article’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory
regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from
the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/
licenses/by/4.0/.
© The Author(s) 2020

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | (2020)11:777 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13943-3 | www.nature.com/naturecommunications

11



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/s41467-019-13943-3.pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: research-paper
