# XP_K520_Data _Sheet _2020-05-18 (1).pdf

Source: junk_drawer/XP_K520_Data _Sheet _2020-05-18 (1).pdf

Category: [[other]]

## Summary
DUPONT™ HSBD KEVLAR® 40AXP™ K520 Technical data data sheet sheet Technical More Protection with Fewer Layers

## Full Content
DUPONT™ HSBD
KEVLAR®
40AXP™ K520

Technical data
data sheet
sheet
Technical

More Protection with Fewer Layers
•

DuPont™ Kevlar® XP™ K520 continues the evolution of the well-known XP™ ballistic
protection family. The exclusive Kevlar® XP™ construction allows the creation of vest
designs that provide NIJ Standard-0101.06IIIA ballistic performance with reduced
backface signature.

•

The architecture of Kevlar® XP™ K520 consists of 2 layers of ﬁbers in a +45°/–45°
orientation that provides the required stopping power to address standard ballistic
threats to body armor with fewer layers thereby reducing labor and material costs
compared to designs with traditional woven fabrics or unidirectional materials.

•

Kevlar® XP™ features a patented technology enabling ﬂexible and lightweight vest
constructions that are robust and long lasting even when exposed to extreme
conditions. Using one of the most reliable materials in the market, vests constructed
with Kevlar® XP™ K520 helps end-users to safely face the threats that they encounter.

Proper use
•

Roll of Kevlar® XP™ are intended for conversion into soft body armor packs, suitable
for use in ballistic vests.

•

It is the responsibility of the vest manufacturer to design suitable end-products and to
obtain the relevant certiﬁcations before releasing vests to end-users.

Proper handling
•

Avoid tearing and crushing the product.

•

Do not use bleach or products containing bleach to clean Kevlar® XP™ K520.

•

Ensure that the correct handling procedure is followed in accordance with package
weight when rolls are being transported.

Proper storage

Technical data
Property

Nominal value

Roll width, cm

160

•

Store in dry temperate area avoiding storage conditions exceeding 66°C (150°F) and
avoiding direct exposure to sun or UV light.

Roll length, m

100

•

Cover the product with black impermeable plastic.

Areal density(1), g/m2

525

(1) Conditioned Weight, 20°C / 65 RH (ASTM D1776)

Ballistic performance
•

DuPont™ Kevlar® XP™ soft armor packs with a typical areal density of 5.3-5.4 kg/m2 made of 9 layers of XP™ K520 partially
stitched, a 3mm foam and 1 layer of XP™ K520 were tested following NIJ IIIA.06 recommendations against .44 Mag Speer
and resulted in typical backface signature in the range of 40mm.

•

This design solution is provided as an illustrative starting point for end-product dimensioning. Final vest designs must
always be tested according to speciﬁc end-user requirements.

Visit kevlar.com to learn more
DuPont is providing this information to you, without fee. DuPont believes the information to be reliable. It is not intended as a substitute for any testing you may conduct to determine the suitability for your
particular purposes. This information corresponds to our current knowledge on the subject and may be subject to revision as new knowledge becomes available. It is your responsibility to investigate other
sources of information on this issue that more appropriately addresses your product and its intended use. This information is not intended for use by you or others in advertising, promotion, publication, or
any other commercial use. DUPONT MAKES NO GUARANTEE OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, REGARDING THE RELIABILITY OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED AND ASSUMES NO
LIABILITY IN CONNECTION WITH ANY USE OF THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN OR THE PRODUCTS OR SERVICES DESCRIBED HEREIN. This information is not a license to operate under, or intended
to suggest infringement of, any existing trademarks or patents. By accepting this information, you indemnify DuPont against any use made by you or someone on your behalf of this information.
Caution: Do not use this product in medical applications involving permanent implantation in the human body. For other medical applications see “DuPont Medical Caution Statement.”® are trademarks or
registered trademarks of DuPont de Nemours, Inc. or its afﬁliates. (04/20).



## Metadata
- Source file: junk_drawer/XP_K520_Data _Sheet _2020-05-18 (1).pdf
- Extracted: 2026-05-18
- Category: other
